Follow Technology Microsoft re-launches ГўВҖВҳprivacy nightmareГўВҖВҷ AI screenshot tool It says it has listened to concerns about the tool, which continuously screenshots online activity. Dame Judi Dench and John Cena to voice Meta AI chatbot Watch: Can BBC reporter's AI clone fool his colleagues? Video, 00:01:30Watch: Can BBC reporter's AI clone fool his colleagues? Facebook parent company fined ГўВӮВ¬91m over password storage Assassin's Creed Shadows release date delayed to 2025 Musk hits back after being shunned from UK summit They were arrested for posting during the riots ГўВҖВ“ will it change anything? James McAvoy and Tom Brady fall for 'Goodbye Meta AI' hoax Caroline Ellison sentenced to two years for role in FTX crypto fraud Sharp rise in problematic teenage social media use, study says Crypto world hoping for Trump election win Telegram will now provide some user data to authorities CrowdStrike: What was the impact of the global IT outage MrBeast is YouTube's biggest star - now he faces 54-page lawsuit TSB says sorry for payment problems A Tamagotchi comeback? Toy gets first UK store as global sales double Sky Glass customers complain as TVs won't turn on Tech Life: Will AI replace call centre workers? Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Will AI replace call centre workers? Is Elon MuskГўВҖВҷs Starlink a game changer for Africa? Video, 00:03:29Is Elon MuskГўВҖВҷs Starlink a game changer for Africa? Tech Life: Mapping a changing world. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Mapping a changing world School calls time on pupils' smart devices. Video, 00:02:54School calls time on pupils' smart devices Tech Life: X in Brazil. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: X in Brazil How pen and paper comes to the rescue in an IT crisis Tigers and crocs make mangrove preservation tough work Would you let AI plan your next holiday? Why hundreds of Samsung workers are protesting in India New beanless 'coffee' emerges but does it taste any good? Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking. Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith Shakespeare to Harry Potter: Six of Dame Maggie Smith's greatest roles Al Fayed's son 'horrified' by sexual abuse allegations Bridgerton ball promised glamour. It descended into chaos Austria's far right eyes unprecedented election win Penguin chicks survive tearaway iceberg Island mourns Shawn Seesahai machete murder 4,000 miles away Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Guardiola says he's been provoked into bigger Arsenal rivalry Impressive England thrash Australia to level ODI series Swiss cyclist Furrer, 18, dies after crash at Worlds Ruthless Chelsea smash Palace for seven at Selhurst Park Controversial Wimbledon expansion plan approved The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland A&E doctor 'refused' to see woman before she died King and Queen's visit will mark 25 years of Scottish Parliament Wales 'should get a lot more' of UK's rail cash Titanic shipbuilder formally enters administration Find your regional news Latest news and must-see moments Dame Maggie Smith obituary: A formidable star on stage and screen Lana Del Rey reportedly marries alligator tour guide in Louisiana  Ludwig review: 'The concept of this is daft - but it kind of works' Kim Kardashian: How a Hollywood legend inspired me Fans' anger as Coldplay touts sell tickets for ГӮВЈ2k Michael Mosley's widow accepts podcast honour 'Chaos reigns': The notorious jail holding Sean 'Diddy' Combs Ian Rankin: How the death of my mum led me to Rebus 500 Words competition: Judges' tips on what makes a winning story Critics praise Sally Rooney's 'utterly perfect' Intermezzo From Yugoslavia to Russian roulette: Marina AbramoviГ„ВҮ on This Cultural Life. Audio, 43 minutesFrom Yugoslavia to Russian roulette: Marina AbramoviГ„ВҮ on This Cultural Life Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Weekend feasts: Impressive dinners to cook when you have more time These comforting dinners for one can all be made in around 30 minutes Turn your old bananas into this effortless sweet treat. Video, 00:01:35Turn your old bananas into this effortless sweet treat 'The food myths my friends believe that drive me crazy' Nadiya Hussain: 'Constant pressure to prove how British I was' Solar panels and heat pump 'have made such a difference' 'I can't enjoy student life until I get a job' Worst regions for bank access revealed Martin Lewis on the right time to start looking at new mortgage deals. Video, 00:01:11Martin Lewis on the right time to start looking at new mortgage deals 'I went to Poland for a tummy tuck and nearly died' What is medical tourism and why is it on the rise? Video, 00:07:00What is medical tourism and why is it on the rise? ADHD: ГўВҖВҳWeГўВҖВҷre sharing and rationing meds to get byГўВҖВҷ Practical parenting tips for managing toddler tantrums More families refusing to donate relatives' organs Pinball lover who has fixed more than 500 machines from his garage Trailblazing first black female GB Olympian appointed MBE Tourists help find new species of tiny chameleon in Madagascar Fascinating stories behind songs that climbed the charts without any lyrics Bob makes Paul's dreams come trueГӮВ in the return of Gone Fishing. Video, 29 minutesBob makes Paul's dreams come trueГӮВ in the return of Gone Fishing An interview with visionary filmmaker and director M. Night Shyamalan. Audio, 33 minutesAn interview with visionary filmmaker and director M. Night Shyamalan Citizen Kane: Watch this landmark of cinema history. Video, 119 minutesCitizen Kane: Watch this landmark of cinema history They were arrested for posting during the riots ГўВҖВ“ will it change anything? UK Roundabout of the Year awarded to 'white knuckle' landmark House in the valleys goes under the hammer for ГӮВЈ0 Are these the funniest wildlife pictures of the year? Sir David Attenborough: 'The world would be worse off without our stories' The 'gigantic' Milky Way map that's taken 13 years to create 'Miracle' moment lion cub is reunited with mother after 24 hours alone. Video, 00:03:00'Miracle' moment lion cub is reunited with mother after 24 hours alone Sign up for the latest climate news and insight from BBC's Justin Rowlatt Who will be the UK's next Drag Race superstar? Dark secrets begin to surface in this all-star mystery series Breathing new life into Hebridean homes and businesses New comedy-drama starring David Mitchell Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later The groundbreaking podcast with simple tips to improve your health. AudioThe groundbreaking podcast with simple tips to improve your health The untold story of a gay police officer's murder in Northern Ireland. AudioThe untold story of a gay police officer's murder in Northern Ireland Have You Heard George's Podcast? An audio experience like no other. AudioHave You Heard George's Podcast? An audio experience like no other Lily and Miquita chat over the week's biggest moments. AudioLily and Miquita chat over the week's biggest moments Joni Mitchell: The life of a pioneer whose songs changed music forever. AudioJoni Mitchell: The life of a pioneer whose songs changed music forever Weekly quiz: How did Pesto the baby penguin make a splash? Can you find the missing number in 90 seconds? How much do you remember from the past week in football? Try and spot the fake news stories from September 2024 See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. All audiences are important to the BBC. This page provides links to resources and documents to help users access the BBC's content and to find out about the BBC approach to the development of rich accessible products and services. Copyright В© 2024 BBC. Sign in or create an account to watch, listen and join in Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader A US official tells the BBC's partner CBS that Hassan Nasrallah was targeted but the Israeli military is yet to confirm this. Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith Six of Dame Maggie's greatest performances Al Fayed's son 'horrified' by sexual abuse allegations Parents say safeguards needed after baby's 'avoidable' death Bridgerton ball promised glamour. It descended into chaos Austria's far right eyes unprecedented election win Lana Del Rey reportedly marries alligator tour guide in Louisiana  'My liquid BBL was safe ГўВҖВ“ I still regret it' At least 43 dead as Helene pummels southeast US  Keir Starmer received more clothes worth ГӮВЈ16,000 Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader A US official tells the BBC's partner CBS that Hassan Nasrallah was targeted but the Israeli military is yet to confirm this. Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith Six of Dame Maggie's greatest performances Al Fayed's son 'horrified' by sexual abuse allegations Bridgerton ball promised glamour. It descended into chaos Austria's far right eyes unprecedented election win Penguin chicks survive tearaway iceberg Lana Del Rey reportedly marries alligator tour guide in Louisiana  'My liquid BBL was safe ГўВҖВ“ I still regret it' At least 43 dead as Helene pummels southeast US  Keir Starmer received more clothes worth ГӮВЈ16,000 Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader A US official tells the BBC's partner CBS that Hassan Nasrallah was targeted but the Israeli military is yet to confirm this. It descended into chaos Austria's far right eyes unprecedented election win Penguin chicks survive tearaway iceberg Lana Del Rey reportedly marries alligator tour guide in Louisiana  'My liquid BBL was safe ГўВҖВ“ I still regret it' At least 43 dead as Helene pummels southeast US  Keir Starmer received more clothes worth ГӮВЈ16,000 Who is Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah? Watch: BBC correspondent records moment air strike hits Beirut. Video, 00:01:07Watch: BBC correspondent records moment air strike hits Beirut Can diplomacy bring Middle East ceasefire? Early signs don't bode well  Iran faces dilemma of restraint or revenge for attacks on ally Hezbollah Watch our pick of standout moments from BBC iPlayer Kylie Minogue on duet with Madonna. 00:01:00, play videoKylie Minogue on duet with Madonna The simple trick to keep bugs out of your home. 00:00:15, play videoThe simple trick to keep bugs out of your home What Jane McDonald learned from her dad. 00:00:35, play videoWhat Jane McDonald learned from her dad 'People keep mistaking us for each other' 00:00:59, play video'People keep mistaking us for each other' How Strictly's costume designers prepare for last minute changes. 00:01:02, play videoHow Strictly's costume designers prepare for last minute changes Why Josh Widdicombe hates kids' party bags. 00:00:55, play videoWhy Josh Widdicombe hates kids' party bags Will this cheetah catch a meal? 00:01:30, play videoWill this cheetah catch a meal? Download the BBC iPlayer app. 00:00:04, play videoDownload the BBC iPlayer app 'Everybody wants to be in': How songs are chosen for EA FC Steve Schnur explains how he chooses which songs get selected for the massive football game's soundtrack. The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' A look back at Dame Maggie Smith's career. Video, 00:02:56A look back at Dame Maggie Smith's career The evolution of devolution: 25 years of the Scottish Parliament How Cinnamon's great escape led to capybara craze An island in mourning after 12-year-olds killed teenager 4,000 miles away Smear campaign against celebrity-endorsed nature reserve exposed Al FayedГўВҖВҷs victims in France call for investigation The allegations span decades - our timeline tracks them Al Fayed: Predator at Harrods. Video, 89 minutesAl Fayed: Predator at Harrods Brightening comet set to shine in autumn sky A newly-spotted comet is set to appear in the autumn sky but it's not clear how bright it will become. Kashmir hopes for a voice after first election in 10 years Festival, football and floods: Photos of the week CompanyГўВҖВҷs skinny prosecco had too much sugar in it ГўВҖВ“ court rules Sean 'Diddy' Combs facing more allegations of sexual assault Trump tells Zelensky it's time to end Russia's war Boris Johnson says he gave Prince Harry 'manly pep talk' to stay in UK Top stories, breaking news, live reporting, and follow news topics that match your interests Get the latest political analysis and big moments, delivered to your inbox every weekday Watch live on iPlayer Listen to news on Sounds Killed By Kids: The Machete Murder. Video, 26 minutesKilled By Kids: The Machete Murder Titan sub implosion: What have we learned? Audio, 28 minutesTitan sub implosion: What have we learned? Has an ex-IRA prisoner solved the Robert Nairac mystery? Captain Robert Nairac was a highly controversial and mysterious figure during The Troubles Elizabeth Taylor: Icon, business woman, activist Can slugs really be repelled? Who will dazzle Mama Ru, and who will ГўВҖВҳsashay awayГўВҖВҷ? Candice Brathwaite on manifesting and social mobility Gemma CollinsГўВҖВҷ emotional search for her family history Can we live without our smartphones? Guardiola says he's been provoked into bigger Arsenal rivalry Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola says he's been provoked into a more intense rivalry with Arsenal as the fallout continues from their Premier League clash at Etihad Stadium last weekend. Impressive England thrash Australia to level ODI series Swiss cyclist Furrer, 18, dies after crash at Worlds Ruthless Chelsea smash Palace for seven at Selhurst Park Controversial Wimbledon expansion plan approved Lille braced for Gomes offers - Saturday's gossip A&E doctor 'refused' to see woman before she died Titanic shipbuilder formally enters administration King and Queen's visit will mark 25 years of Scottish Parliament Wales 'should get a lot more' of UK's rail cash Find your regional news Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Sign in or create an account to watch, listen and join in Guardiola says he's been provoked into bigger Arsenal rivalry Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola says he's been provoked into a more intense rivalry with Arsenal as the fallout continues from their Premier League clash at Etihad Stadium last weekend. Impressive England thrash Australia to level ODI series Swiss cyclist Furrer, 18, dies after crash at Worlds Ruthless Chelsea smash Palace for seven at Selhurst Park Controversial Wimbledon expansion plan approved Lille braced for Gomes offers - Saturday's gossip Edwards outworks Essomba to become European champion Wade hat-trick as Gloucester beat Bristol in thriller 'Trophies not my main motivation' - Liverpool's Alisson meets Joe Hart 'Absolute peach!' - Archer bowls Australia captain Marsh. Video, 00:00:27'Absolute peach!' - Archer bowls Australia captain Marsh International team stun US to draw level in Presidents Cup  Leigh stun Salford to reach first semi-final Ruthless Chelsea dominate WSL newcomers Crystal Palace. Video, 00:04:02Ruthless Chelsea dominate WSL newcomers Crystal Palace 'Get your foot down!' - Smith almost run out after Australia overthrow  Video, 00:00:35'Get your foot down!' - Smith almost run out after Australia overthrow  I see Ederson doing well and know I have to do better - Alisson. Video, 00:04:22I see Ederson doing well and know I have to do better - Alisson 'What an over' - Livingstone hits Starc for 28. Video, 00:01:05'What an over' - Livingstone hits Starc for 28 It's difficult to replace Rodri - Guardiola Trump makes 1,000th century in British Open defeat World number one Judd Trump compiles his 1,000th career century but loses 5-3 to Mark Allen in the quarter-finals of the British Open. Glasgow power to six-try win after Benetton red card Cissoko scores two as Rooney's Plymouth beat Luton Sutton's predictions v Maximo Park frontman Paul Smith Lopetegui asks West Ham fans to reserve judgement until May How Arsenal became synonymous with black identity 'Pitbull' Gallagher leading new-look Atletico into Madrid derby Szczesny comeback, La Liga records & Bayern's Leverkusen test A return to football for Wojciech Szczesny, Barcelona and Real Madrid approach records in La Liga and the top two meet in Germany - what to look out for in Europe. Leinster ease to bonus-point win against Dragons  'Voice of snooker' Everton dies aged 87 Man City's Rodri out for season with ACL injury Rodgers 'frustration' over Celtic fixture schedule International football's record scorer Sinclair to retire The British coach building Seahawks' new 'Legion of Boom' Potts takes four wickets as Australia thrashed in fourth ODI. Video, 00:01:30Potts takes four wickets as Australia thrashed in fourth ODI Prescott stars as Dallas Cowboys beat New York Giants. Video, 00:03:54Prescott stars as Dallas Cowboys beat New York Giants Watch goals as Celtic reach Champions League groups  Video, 00:02:20Watch goals as Celtic reach Champions League groups  'Race to be proud of' - Yee on tough win in China. Video, 00:01:37'Race to be proud of' - Yee on tough win in China The son of a heavyweight boxer hoping to make it big in British basketball. Video, 00:01:37The son of a heavyweight boxer hoping to make it big in British basketball Springboks target title in Etzebeth's record game South Africa aim to win their first Rugby Championship since 2019 on Saturday and face Argentina, who can also still win the title, in Nelspruit. Ireland suffer eight-wicket loss to South Africa in T20 opener Wales aim to do the double over Australia at WXV2 'Rugby will die without new plan' - World Rugby candidate Benazzi 'I was dead at one point' - a footballer's 'miracle' return Double up on Saka and Martinelli - FPL tips & team of the week Hundred financial projections 'overly optimistic' 'Mind games' - Edwards faces little brother in opponent's corner Charlie Edwards is ready for his brother's "mind games" as he prepares to fight Thomas Essomba - who is managed by Sunny Edwards - on Friday. Draper into Japan quarters as Boulter also wins Garcia ends season early after 'anxiety attacks'  'ADHD helps massively with boxing' - super-bantamweight Gallagher England and GB men's hockey coach Revington departs Potter 'ready' for return after Chelsea 'anger' Aberdeen give Leven permission to talk to St Johnstone Save for later on iPlayer and subscribe on Sounds Gemma CollinsГўВҖВҷ emotional search for her family history Can slugs really be repelled? Katherine Ryan's top 10 British girlbands Get a range of BBC Sport newsletters delivered straight to your inbox throughout the week 'Stuck for two and a half hours' - Qarabag's Tottenham nightmare  Qarabag manager Gurban Gurbanov says his team were not given enough time to prepare after being stuck in traffic for two and a half hours en route to Thursday's Europa League match at Tottenham. WXV: Tournament guide, fixtures and BBC coverage County Championship 2024 team of the season as chosen by you From Test match to wedding - Stone's Pakistan dash Test your knowledge with our Premier League strikers quiz Heavyweight permutations - what next after Dubois' win? From facing Pele to Bath City FC - meet the 80-year-old assistant manager  The slow death of the screamer Elite players are taking fewer shots from further out. What is behind the trend and is it harming the game? 'It was like a non-league team asking Man Utd for a match' 'The cash came up to my torso' -  tales of a match-fixer Saddling up on the high seas - the cyclists powering 50-mph yachts Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Paralysed by an ex-boyfriend, Otto rises as Paralympian How a Facebook advert changed a life and the look of a sport Wade hat-trick helps Gloucester beat Bristol in thriller Glasgow ease to six-try win after Benetton red card Leinster ease to bonus-point win against Dragons  Larne come from behind to beat 10-man Cliftonville Instagram TikTok Facebook X YouTube New mystery starring Annette Bening Delve into Man City's meteoric rise Fishing for old memories in new waters Who is ChatGPT's billionaire CEO? ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. This video can not be played Tonight Tonight will be dry and clear for most. Yet, western Scotland will see cloud increase with spells of rain moving from the west. A few isolated showers could also move into Wales and Northern Ireland. Sunday Tomorrow, Scotland will be rather cloudy and breezy with patchy rain in western areas. Occasional, light showers in other north-western areas too. Elsewhere, it will be a dry and mostly sunny day. Outlook for Monday to Wednesday On Sunday, it will turn generally cloudy and south-western areas will see an area of strong winds and heavy persistent rain moving in during the afternoon. Dry and brighter towards the north. Rain clearing but lingering in the east on Monday. Tuesday will see a north-easterly flow develop and it will turn cooler, with sunny spells and some scattered showers across the east. More rain and risk of flooding with weather warning for strong winds After heavy rain and flooding, more rain and strong winds are forecast for parts of the UK on Sunday. Roads and train lines flooded after more downpours Part of the M5 is closed and some rail lines are closed after more downpours hit parts of England and Wales. Storm Helene death toll rises to at least 43 across southeast US Flooded roads have left people stranded and without power as the death toll from Helene continues to mount. Storm surges: What makes them happen? Video, 00:01:58Storm surges: What makes them happen? Storm intensity, size and angle of approach, and the shape of the coast,  all play a part these surges like the one forecast with ex-hurricane Helene. Weather for the Week Ahead. Video, 00:03:29Weather for the Week Ahead After all the recent rain will there be some drier weather to come? Elizabeth Rizzini has the details. BBC Weather in association with MeteoGroup, external All times are British Summer Time (Europe/London, GMT+1) unless otherwise stated. UK huns? A hot new cast of stupendous queens enter the werk room. Start your engines! Find One Piece, become King of the Pirates. Come aboard and bring your hopes and dreams! Just like old times, but better. The friends face the unpredictable stages of midlife Mobeen Azhar investigates what tipped a peaceful demonstration into a riot. Make every day a film day! Save shows to listen to later, subscribe to your favourites and get fresh recommendations everyday. Sign in or Register Gear up for Live Lounge Month on Monday The daily news podcast from the BBC Lucy Worsley investigates the crimes of Victorian women from a contemporary perspective. An award winning rugby league legend questions guests using his eye-gaze machine. The Limelight podcast - for fiction and drama serials you won't want to miss from Radio 4. NEW season: Al Fayed, Predator at Harrods. Women accuse Mohamed Al Fayed of rape The latest news, insight, analysis and big name guests from the footballing world. Amazing performances from Radio 1's world famous Live Lounge! Nelly Furtado co-host's the throwback party! A wall-to-wall celebration of dance music from across the decades. The world's greatest classical music festival - stunning performances and collaborations. Live performances from Radio 2 in the Park including sets by Sting, Sugababes, and more! Your daily mix of Bollywood, Bhangra, UK garage, R&B, hip-hop and more. A Celebration of Michael Mosley Mortgage Special: Time To Fix? Will Rates drop further? How to find top deals ArizonaвҖҰ and the battle for the Latino vote The Dark Arts, Annoying Fergie & Being A Sporting Director The Riots, The Police and Social Media P Diddy: What are the charges against the hip-hop mogul? Primary Age 3 to 11 Secondary Age 11 to 16 Careers Skills and jobs Teachers BBC Teach Check in each morning for a new challenge. It's Maths Week Scotland 2024. NEW! My World - Reception game Guardians: Defenders of Mathematica - game Operation Ouch! - science game Karate Cats Maths - maths game Karate Cats English - English game Dance Mat Typing All maths games All English games All science games All history games Quiz: Can you spot the fake news stories from September 2024? Find out which viral news stories from this month are real or fake with this quiz. Does food taste better when weГўВҖВҷre in love? Revealed: the top 10 jobs teenagers want How to spot a deepfake Is it wrong to use AI for homework? Jacqueline Wilson on the BrontГғВ«s and childhood imagination The monthly AI or real quiz: September 2024 European Day of Languages - topic pack Celebrate languages from all over Europe with activities, songs, videos and quizzes. SATs dates 2025 Find out what to expect in the KS1 and KS2 SATs assessments for maths and English. GCSE exam dates 2025 Find out the dates for your exam board, create a revision timetable, and get study tips. Free flashcards on the Bitesize app! Learn and revise on the go with the Bitesize app on Apple and Android devices. Post-16 learning Videos, quizzes and activities for students of Functional Skills maths and English. Operation Ouch! It Takes Guts! - game NEW! Creative Lab - Art and Design game Crystal Explorers - English game Earth Squad, Go! - Science game Numberblocks: See the Amount - game Atomic Labs Divided Islands Planet Planners History Detectives "Write a story you would love to read." BBC's 500 Words is the UK's largest writing competition for children aged 5-11. 500 Words is open for entries! Do you know a fantastic writer aged 5-11? The UK's biggest story writing competition is open for entries now! What makes a brilliant 500 Words story? We caught up with judges Sir Lenny Henry, Frank Cottrell-Boyce and Charlie Higson for their thoughts on what makes a fantastic story. ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs about the story and nothing elseГўВҖВқ Spencer was hesitant to enter due to his dyslexia - he was ultimately crowned the silver winner in the 8-11 category in the 2023/24 final. Explore these free, inclusive sport resources with follow-along songs and dances. What is blind football? What is boccia? What is Para athletics? What is allyship? Citizenship Discover more about governments, voting and social action. Humanities Geography Learn about change and movement while building your geographical skills. Social Studies History Learn about early pandemics and the Scottish witch trials. Feelings and emotions We all have emotions and we feel different things at different times. Find out why. English, maths, science and more - we've got you! Write a story you would love to read! Three monster-loving kids on a mission! Dance drama following the A-Troupe Help rescue the art gallery! Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Create your own eco climate mascot! QuizCreate your own eco climate mascot! Quiz: Do you know about these green ideas? QuizQuiz: Do you know about these green ideas? Quiz: Incredible eco-animals. QuizQuiz: Incredible eco-animals QUIZ: How much like an otter are you? QuizQUIZ: How much like an otter are you? Make a fruity bird feeder. InteractiveMake a fruity bird feeder Enter our Competition! CommentsEnter our Competition! Win some fantastic Saturday Mash-Up goodies, including special prizes from the guests on the show. CBBC Creative Lab. GameCBBC Creative Lab Strictly Come Dancing: Feel the Rhythm. GameStrictly Come Dancing: Feel the Rhythm Vote: Choose an animal style for the Deadly game. CommentsVote: Choose an animal style for the Deadly game Taffy: Mission Caviar. GameTaffy: Mission Caviar Rule over a viking settlement in Raid and Trade. GameRule over a viking settlement in Raid and Trade Which Deadly Predator Are You? QuizWhich Deadly Predator Are You? Race the gut buster through the human body. GameRace the gut buster through the human body Make your own Malory Towers character. QuizMake your own Malory Towers character Get ready for spooky season with these fun games, quizzes and tips! The best spooky games, frightful quizzes and terrific tips! Can you solve the Worst Witch Magical Mystery? GameCan you solve the Worst Witch Magical Mystery? Find your perfect Halloween costume. QuizFind your perfect Halloween costume How much do you know about vampires? QuizHow much do you know about vampires? Ask Our Guests Anything! CommentsAsk Our Guests Anything! Saturday Mash-Up Fan Chat. CommentsSaturday Mash-Up Fan Chat We Are Looking for Game Reviewers. CommentsWe Are Looking for Game Reviewers Make someoneГўВҖВҷs dream come true! CommentsMake someoneГўВҖВҷs dream come true! Check out everything Blue Peter How to earn Blue Peter badges. CommentsHow to earn Blue Peter badges 65 questions for 65 years of Blue Peter. Quiz65 questions for 65 years of Blue Peter Join the Blue Peter Book Club. CommentsJoin the Blue Peter Book Club Winner of the design a gadget competition  CommentsWinner of the design a gadget competition  Find out which gadget won the design competition and see if it worked to cure Ozzie of the Mondays. Join the CBBC Superfan Club! CommentsJoin the CBBC Superfan Club! How much do you know about Roblox? QuizHow much do you know about Roblox? Which Doctor Who duo are you and your BFF? QuizWhich Doctor Who duo are you and your BFF? Candi-Rose Dress-up Generator. QuizCandi-Rose Dress-up Generator Blue Peter Horrible Histories Operation Ouch The Next Step CBeebies Bluey Supertato Jo Jo & Gran Gran Write a story you would love to read! CBeebies Creative Lab Art Game. GameCBeebies Creative Lab Art Game CBeebies Creative Lab is a digital art tool for children. You can paint or draw on a blank canvas, choose line art to colour in, have fun using the spin art tool or pop bubbles to make magic pictures. Get to know the pups in Dodge's Pup School. VideoGet to know the pups in Dodge's Pup School Vegesaurs Valley Adventures Game. GameVegesaurs Valley Adventures Game Can you find the Long Dog? ActivityCan you find the Long Dog? Five Little Vegesaurs. VideoFive Little Vegesaurs Supertato: Potato Flinger Game  GameSupertato: Potato Flinger Game  Peter Rabbit's Hop To It Game. GamePeter Rabbit's Hop To It Game My World Kitchen Game. GameMy World Kitchen Game My Swashbuckle Adventure. GameMy Swashbuckle Adventure Play Bingo Jigsaw Puzzles. ActivityPlay Bingo Jigsaw Puzzles Play Muffin Jigsaw Puzzles  ActivityPlay Muffin Jigsaw Puzzles  Play Socks Jigsaw Puzzles  ActivityPlay Socks Jigsaw Puzzles  Play Bluey Jigsaw Puzzles. ActivityPlay Bluey Jigsaw Puzzles Numberblocks Jigsaw. ActivityNumberblocks Jigsaw How To Draw Numberblock One. VideoHow To Draw Numberblock One Five Times Table Song. VideoFive Times Table Song Numberblocks finger puppet song. VideoNumberblocks finger puppet song Number Magic Quiz Level 1. ActivityNumber Magic Quiz Level 1 Hey Duggee's 200th Episode Ultimate Quiz. ActivityHey Duggee's 200th Episode Ultimate Quiz Hey Duggee Squirrel Club Quest Game. GameHey Duggee Squirrel Club Quest Game The Busy Day Badge Game. GameThe Busy Day Badge Game The Picnic Badge Game. GameThe Picnic Badge Game Supermarket Showdown. GameSupermarket Showdown Spot Chilli in the Supermarket! ActivitySpot Chilli in the Supermarket! Supertato Snap Card Game. ActivitySupertato Snap Card Game Supertato Jigsaw. ActivitySupertato Jigsaw Tips and ideas from top parenting and educational experts. Dodge Colouring Sheet  InteractiveDodge Colouring Sheet  Print and colour the loveable pup, Dodge! Birthday Card Shout-Outs. HelpBirthday Card Shout-Outs Make a timetable with Pablo. InteractiveMake a timetable with Pablo Change Guide: CBeebies website  HelpChange Guide: CBeebies website  CBeebies free apps for kids. HelpCBeebies free apps for kids Bluey Supertato Hey Duggee Numberblocks CBBC Blue Peter Shaun the Sheep Danger Mouse Join Ginger in Vegesaur Valley! Make and play with the Numberblocks Can the Go Jetters save the bees? The Ugly Five read by Steve Backshall ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. All the recipes you need from Mary Berry and potato queen, Poppy OвҖҷToole Impressive recipes to cook when you have more time This lean protein makes for a healthy budget-friendly meal  Our favourite ways to use up your leftover loaf Northern Ireland, Glasgow and Argyll Episode 2 22/09/2024 21/09/2024 Trellick Episode 15 Vegan recipes bursting with flavour, plus information on vegan ingredients and substitutions and foods to watch out for. These recipes are for those on a 1,200 вҖ“ 1,500 calorie diet. Pick and mix your favourites to keep things exciting. Vegetarian recipes bursting with flavour plus information on ingredients, substitutions and foods to watch out for. Let BBC Food tempt you to more than 3000 recipes, including pancakes, bread and cakes. For healthy recipes that are balanced, varied and a pleasure to eat, let BBC Food show you how. If you're lactose-intolerant or allergic to dairy products, BBC Food's dairy-free dishes will freshen up your repertoire Student Recipes Collection Get recipes
Follow Technology Microsoft re-launches ГўВҖВҳprivacy nightmareГўВҖВҷ AI screenshot tool It says it has listened to concerns about the tool, which continuously screenshots online activity. Labour's plan to build 1.5m homes ГўВҖВ“ can it be delivered? Are planning reforms and social housing enough to meet the government's ambitious plan? One week on, how the Lebanon attacks have changed the Middle East Why do concert tickets now cost as much as a games console? Amazon says workers must be in the office. The UK government disagrees. Who is right? Labour insiders frustrated at Starmer's 'breathtaking' wardrobe row The crypto bros who dream of crowdfunding a new country The debate: We need new homes, where should they go? What will happen when VAT is added to private school fees? HS2 blew billions - here's how and why How many of us will end up being diagnosed with ADHD? Starmer wants to act tough to fix long-term problems - but is he avoiding the trickiest? Stephen Lawrence would have turned 50 by now. Is there still a chance to get justice for him? The great gene editing debate: can it be safe and ethical? A tent city next to Mayfair: Why cutting homelessness might be harder than before The riots, the police and social media. Audio, 58 minutesThe riots, the police and social media Could the winter fuel cut cost more than it saves? Audio, 29 minutesCould the winter fuel cut cost more than it saves? How the Taliban are governing Afghanistan. Audio, 23 minutesHow the Taliban are governing Afghanistan Who is Mark Robinson? Could he cost Trump the election? Audio, 36 minutesWho is Mark Robinson? Surviving 7 October: We will dance again. Video, 88 minutesSurviving 7 October: We will dance again In my own words: Jackie Kay. Video, 45 minutesIn my own words: Jackie Kay Small town, big riot The battle for black music: Paid in full. Video, 59 minutesThe battle for black music: Paid in full Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Bowen: Israel is gambling Hezbollah will crumple but it faces a well-armed, angry enemy The Lebanese armed group has - like Israel - spent years preparing and is more formidable than Hamas in Gaza. Biden struggles to contain conflict as Israel and Hezbollah on the brink Israeli air strikes kill 492 people in Lebanon 'We just had to flee': Fear and tension in Lebanon under deadly Israeli bombardment Bowen: Israel believes it has weakened Hezbollah but escalation still carries risks Cold military logic takes over in Israel-Hezbollah conflict Israel and Hezbollah urged to step back as UN warns of 'catastrophe' What is Hezbollah and why is Israel attacking Lebanon? Where does Israel get its weapons? What are the historical reasons behind the conflict? UN Gaza aid chief: World is failing innocent civilians Satellite images show how Israel is paving key Gaza road Has Israel taken enough action to prevent alleged incitement to genocide? Chris Mason: UK ministers set out a more Israel-sceptic posture. Audio, 4 minutesChris Mason: UK ministers set out a more Israel-sceptic posture Israel-Gaza ceasefire: Is a deal still possible? Family of aid worker killed in Gaza call for inquiry Hope is all we've got, says Hamas victim's brother Stories of the hostages taken by Hamas from Israel 'It feels like weГўВҖВҷre in Gaza': West Bank raid leaves destruction and determination in its wake 'A sniper is right outside the house': Inside Jenin's sealed-off refugee camp Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Ros Atkins on... Why the US election is crucial to Ukraine. Video, 00:03:33Ros Atkins on... Why the US election is crucial to Ukraine The BBC's analysis editor looks at why Volodymyr Zelensky is presenting his 'victory plan' to US political leaders. BBC asks Trump what he would do differently in the Middle East. Video, 00:00:40BBC asks Trump what he would do differently in the Middle East 'I'm a capitalist' says Harris in economic pitch to voters BBC Question Time coming to US for election special US charges three Iranians with hacking Trump campaign Trump meets Zelensky and says it's time to end Russia's war Why Georgia could again be centre of an election storm Crypto world hoping for Trump election win What latest FBI data shows about violent crime How social media assassination conspiracies are uniting pro- and anti-Trump voters Why 'Comrade Kamala' memes are spreading among Latino exiles  US election polls: Who is ahead - Harris or Trump? What are Harris and Trump's policies? What the world thought of US debate A guide to Trump's four criminal cases Seven swing states set to decide the 2024 US election Springfield grapples with false pet-eating rumours - and real problems How Harris campaign is engaging with Swifties Trump loses Electric Avenue song legal fight  Laura Loomer: Who is conspiracy theorist travelling with Trump? John Legend: Why abortion issue is personal for Chrissy Teigen and me. Video, 00:01:40John Legend: Why abortion issue is personal for Chrissy Teigen and me Cut through the spin with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's take - in your inbox every Wednesday. Harris and Oprah hold star-studded rally in Michigan. Video, 00:01:18Harris and Oprah hold star-studded rally in Michigan Bodycam footage shows arrest of suspected Trump gunman. Video, 00:00:38Bodycam footage shows arrest of suspected Trump gunman Ros Atkins on... Were the Trump-Harris debate moderators unfair? Video, 00:02:48Ros Atkins on... Ros Atkins examines what we know about suspect Ryan Routh. Video, 00:01:44Ros Atkins examines what we know about suspect Ryan Routh Watch key moments from Harris-Trump clash. Video, 00:02:00Watch key moments from Harris-Trump clash Ros Atkins on Trump suspect viral conspiracy theory. Video, 00:01:22Ros Atkins on Trump suspect viral conspiracy theory How much security does Donald Trump get? Video, 00:01:44Ros Atkins examines what we know about suspect Ryan Routh Ros Atkins on... Trump repeats baseless claim about Haitian immigrants eating pets  Undecided Americans impressed by Harris - but did debate shift their votes? ГўВҖВҳI want to see her challengedГўВҖВҷ - swing voters unconvinced by Harris interview 'She did a really smart thing': Democratic voters like Harris's pick Vance 'can only go up': Republican voters applaud VP pick 'I feel terrible for him and America': Voters worry about Biden We're looking for US voters who want to share their views on the election Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. How can working parents apply for 15 and 30 hours free childcare? When is the Budget and what might be in it? How much does uni cost in the UK and is it worth it? How much are gas and electricity bills going up this winter? How much is the winter fuel payment and who can still get it? How quickly are prices rising in the UK? What can I do if I can't pay my energy bill? Why the state pension is going up by more than inflation How can I pay off my debts and what help is available? How much are prices rising for you? Try our calculator Five ways to save money on your mortgage How are renting and eviction rules changing? Mortgage calculator: Will my payments rise? Winter fuel: 'WeГўВҖВҷll choose between heating and eating' Student grows vegetables to save money 'I got a ГӮВЈ44,000 student loan - now I owe ГӮВЈ54,000ГўВҖВҷ Pension Credit: 'Being ГӮВЈ2 over threshold left me ГӮВЈ500 short' Social worker exodus blamed on cost of living Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Trump meets Zelensky and says it's time to end Russia's war The last-minute meeting in New York comes amid Trump's increasing criticism of US funding for the war in Ukraine. Putin proposes new rules for using nuclear weapons Russia planning to  target nuclear plants, Zelensky says  Zelensky looks to Biden to back Ukraine 'victory plan' Three killed in Russian strike on Kharkiv apartment Russia gripped by human rights crackdown, says UN 'We were surrounded by Russian troops - but escaped' Video, 00:02:52'We were surrounded by Russian troops - but escaped' RussiaГўВҖВҷs war dead tops 70,000 as volunteers face 'meat grinder' Putin draws new red line on long-range missiles Starmer-Biden talks were about second-guessing Putin What are Storm Shadow missiles and why are they crucial for Ukraine? Russia's targeting of 'enemies within'  evokes ghosts of the Soviet past 'Our husbands didn't go to war for Ukraine so we can sit around crying' 'Please save me': The Indians duped into fighting for Russia  Ukrainians warn of being surrounded as Russia advances in east Inside Pokrovsk - the vital Ukrainian town in Russia's sights Meeting the Ukrainian recruits preparing for new battle Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Climate change supercharged Europe floods - scientists A new study shows that the record-breaking rainfall was made more likely and intense by climate change. Microsoft chooses infamous nuclear site for AI power Climate change is turbo-charging SomaliaГўВҖВҷs problems - but there's still hope Drought leaves Amazon basin rivers at all-time low Wildlife charity declares 'butterfly emergency' Climate a more fundamental threat than terror - Lammy UK farming's 'net zero' climate target in doubt UK getting more hot and more wet days ГўВҖВ“ Met Office World breaks hottest day record twice in a week  Is climate change making hurricanes and typhoons worse? What's the real distance between Sunak and Starmer on climate? Crossbows and eerie silences ГўВҖВ“ following Antarctic whales for climate change clues Why is the world getting warmer? What does net zero mean? What you can do to reduce carbon emissions Get exclusive insight on the latest climate and environment news from the BBCГўВҖВҷs Climate Editor Justin Rowlatt, delivered to your inbox weekly. Follow UK Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith The King and prime minister add tributes to heartfelt memories from co-stars like Daniel Radcliffe. Al Fayed's son 'horrified' by sexual abuse allegations Keir Starmer received more clothes worth ГӮВЈ16,000 'My liquid BBL was safe ГўВҖВ“ I still regret it' Boys who killed with machete aged 12 are detained Just Stop Oil supporters throw soup on Van Gogh artwork again Motorway reopens after heavy rain submerges rail lines and leaves drivers stranded Company's skinny prosecco had too much sugar in it - court rules A&E doctor 'refused' to see woman before she died Titanic shipbuilder formally enters administration New Scottish Tory leader Russell Findlay promises to 'change' party  Joseph Eubank found not guilty of raping teen BBC reporter's 'ill-looking' AI clone fails to fool colleagues. Video, 00:01:30BBC reporter's 'ill-looking' AI clone fails to fool colleagues The hemp farmers who have to hide their crops. Video, 00:02:08The hemp farmers who have to hide their crops Victims of Mohamed Al Fayed tell BBC of alleged rape and trafficking. Video, 00:02:45Victims of Mohamed Al Fayed tell BBC of alleged rape and trafficking Refuse workers' lucky escape after lorry explosion. Video, 00:00:14Refuse workers' lucky escape after lorry explosion Starmer's conference speech in under two minutes. Video, 00:01:53Starmer's conference speech in under two minutes The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' The evolution of devolution: 25 years of the Scottish Parliament How Cinnamon's great escape led to capybara craze They were arrested for posting during the riots ГўВҖВ“ will it change anything? 'WeГўВҖВҷre sharing and rationing ADHD meds to get byГўВҖВҷ Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Follow World Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader A US official tells the BBC's partner CBS that Hassan Nasrallah was targeted but the Israeli military is yet to confirm this. Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory At least 43 dead as Helene pummels southeast US  Penguin chicks survive tearaway iceberg Sean 'Diddy' Combs facing more allegations of sexual assault Al FayedГўВҖВҷs victims in France call for investigation Trump meets Zelensky and says it's time to end Russia's war Harry Potter and Downton Abbey actress Dame Maggie Smith dies at 89 Shakespeare to Harry Potter: Six of Dame Maggie Smith's greatest roles 'I swam out of my home' - Floridians reel from Helene Smear campaign against celebrity-endorsed nature reserve exposed Pope says church must be ashamed of Belgium sexual abuse NYC mayor pleads not guilty to bribery and fraud charges Watch: Reporter captures moment air strike hits Beirut. Video, 00:01:07Watch: Reporter captures moment air strike hits Beirut Dramatic flooding and rescues as Hurricane Helene hits Florida. Video, 00:01:03Dramatic flooding and rescues as Hurricane Helene hits Florida BBC visits scene of Israeli air strike in Lebanese village. Video, 00:01:42BBC visits scene of Israeli air strike in Lebanese village What satellite data shows about missile damage in Lebanon. Video, 00:01:46What satellite data shows about missile damage in Lebanon Ros Atkins on... Why the US election is crucial to Ukraine Uber terms mean couple can't sue after 'life-changing' crash Austria's far right eyes unprecedented election win Dame Maggie Smith obituary: A formidable star on stage and screen Kashmir hopes for a voice after first election in 10 years Blood tests help Bosnian families find closure after war Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Starmer says Tesla investment welcome after Musk row After Elon Musk fight, Sir Keir Starmer says "investment from anywhere" is encouraged. Treasury reconsidering Labour plan for non-dom tax status Microsoft re-launches ГўВҖВҳprivacy nightmareГўВҖВҷ AI screenshot tool Titanic shipbuilder formally enters administration Daily Telegraph tipped to go to US bidder at auction How pen and paper comes to the rescue in an IT crisis Labour's plan to build 1.5m homes ГўВҖВ“ can it be delivered? Musk hits back after being shunned from UK summit Firm says ГӮВЈ1bn plant will transform UK recycling Dame Judi Dench and John Cena to voice Meta AI chatbot Jaguar Land Rover to invest ГӮВЈ500m in car plant Banks must refund fraud up to ГӮВЈ85,000 in five days Australia's lithium mining boom hit by sagging prices Crypto world hoping for Trump election win Tigers and crocs make mangrove preservation tough work Why do concert tickets now cost as much as a games console? Would you let AI plan your next holiday? Technology of Business CEO Secrets Artificial intelligence New Tech Economy Global cost of living Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Treasury reconsidering Labour plan for non-dom tax status The change follows concerns over how much money will be raised, should wealthy foreigners leave the UK. Starmer meets Trump for the first time New Scottish Tory leader Russell Findlay promises to 'change' party  Baroness Warsi quits Conservatives in the Lords Longer jail terms don't deter crime, ex-judge says Keir Starmer received more clothes worth ГӮВЈ16,000 Greens expel activist who won discrimination claim Johnson's 'hopeless' bid to persuade Prince Harry to stay Starmer brands donor flat claims 'farcical' Starmer steps up call for ceasefire in Lebanon Housing push could swamp services, county councils warn EU hints at compromise on youth mobility deal Sickness benefit claimants should look for work - PM  Henry Zeffman: Starmer says he knows what's wrong - but can he fix it? Key takeaways from Keir Starmer's conference speech Starmer's conference speech in under two minutes. Video, 00:01:53Starmer's conference speech in under two minutes 'Hillsborough Law' on the table by anniversary - PM Henry Zeffman on what we learned from StarmerГўВҖВҷs speech. 00:01:22, play videoHenry Zeffman on what we learned from StarmerГўВҖВҷs speech VR and coffee queues - Adam Fleming tours the conference centre. 00:00:54, play videoVR and coffee queues - Adam Fleming tours the conference centre Quickfire questions with the youngest MP. 00:01:00, play videoQuickfire questions with the youngest MP Grim outside, upbeat inside. 00:00:26, play videoGrim outside, upbeat inside Something I admire about the Tories is... 00:00:45, play videoSomething I admire about the Tories is... How to spot a Labour supporter. 00:00:51, play videoHow to spot a Labour supporter Larry the Cat on a tote bag and other things for sale. 00:00:36, play videoLarry the Cat on a tote bag and other things for sale Download the BBC News app. 00:00:05, play videoDownload the BBC News app Lord Alli: Labour donor reluctantly in the spotlight Is Reform UK's plan to get Farage into No 10 mission impossible? The debate: We need new homes, where should they go? Follow Culture Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith The King and prime minister add tributes to heartfelt memories from co-stars like Daniel Radcliffe. Tributes to Harry Potter and Downton Abbey's Maggie Smith Dame Maggie Smith obituary: A formidable star on stage and screen Bridgerton ball promised glamour. It descended into chaos Activists throw soup on Van Gogh painting again Menendez drama creator hits back at family criticism Fans' anger as Coldplay touts sell tickets for ГӮВЈ2k Tearing other women down isn't brat, says Apple dance creator Queen's Brian May quits RSPCA over its food welfare label Johnson's 'hopeless' bid to persuade Prince Harry to stay 'Voice of snooker' Everton dies aged 87 Judge says controversial women-only art exhibit is legal Shakespeare to Harry Potter: Six of Dame Maggie Smith's greatest roles Life in pictures: Dame Maggie Smith Will Ferrell on being his trans friend's road trip ally Kim Kardashian: How a Hollywood legend inspired me Does Netflix's new documentary unmask the real Vince McMahon? A look back at Dame Maggie Smith's career. Video, 00:02:56A look back at Dame Maggie Smith's career Aunt Lucy mystery to be solved in new Paddington film Match of the day or Last Night of the Proms? Well, it's both! Video, 00:00:49Match of the day or Last Night of the Proms? Inside gallery where Banksy artwork was stolen. Video, 00:01:01Inside gallery where Banksy artwork was stolen Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Queen's Brian May quits RSPCA over its food welfare label The association has had to run spot checks on farms using its label amid welfare concerns. Sycamore Gap saplings to become symbols of hope RSPCA launches review of its farm animal welfare scheme Earth to briefly gain second 'moon', scientists say Wreckage shows how Titan's hull came apart Climate change supercharged Europe floods - scientists Prince William says make peace with nature Sir David Attenborough: 'The world would be worse off without our stories' Titan sub disaster: Five key questions that remain Mystery tremors were from massive nine-day tsunami The great gene editing debate: can it be safe and ethical? Which rural area will take the UKГўВҖВҷs nuclear waste? Astronauts reveal what life is like on ISS ГўВҖВ“ and how they deal with 'space smell' Reservoir of liquid water found deep in Martian rocks  Europe's Ariane-6 rocket blasts off on maiden flight Satellite captures first-of-a-kind cloud image The Sun has entered a ГўВҖВҳbusy periodГўВҖВҷ Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. BMA takes 'neutral position' on gender review The doctors' union had previously signalled it was critical of a review into gender identity services. Other hospitals warned over surgeon Jabbar 'Fake weight loss drug nearly killed me' Doctors' regulator refused to investigate Harrods medical tests Covid was like a daily terror attack, doctor tells inquiry Arrests after woman dies following 'BBL procedure' 'Remarkable' boy survived life support switch-off, judge says Covid inquiry rejects cliniciansГўВҖВҷ anonymity plea High-grade masks evidence weak, Covid inquiry told No extra NHS funding without reform, says PM NHS was 'creaking at seams' when Covid hit Nurses bore the brunt of Covid, ex-chief nurse says One in three children short-sighted, study suggests Six NHS schemes that could help fix the health service Peanut allergy warning over dips and sandwiches  Genetic ghosts suggest CovidГўВҖВҷs market origins New XEC Covid variant: What are the symptoms and is it spreading in the UK? How many of us will end up being diagnosed with ADHD? What is mpox and how is it spread? The junior doctors' strikes may be over. But is trouble ahead? Why we might never know the truth about ultra-processed foods Slimming jabs: 'I thought my body was shutting down' Infected blood victims could get ГӮВЈ2m compensation What is the infected blood scandal? 'Blood compensation comes too late for my husband' Children used as 'guinea pigs' in clinical trials Infected blood inquiry: Five things we have learned Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Ellie Boatman: How rugby helped me with eating disorder. Audio, 4 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Ellie Boatman: How rugby helped me with eating disorder Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Erin Kennedy: My oncologists are coming to Paris. Audio, 4 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Erin Kennedy: My oncologists are coming to Paris How Dame Deborah James helped save a mum's life. Video, 00:02:11How Dame Deborah James helped save a mum's life Can health secretary name NHS trusts performing well? Video, 00:01:59Can health secretary name NHS trusts performing well? 'I embrace my alopecia, but IГўВҖВҷd love my old hair backГўВҖВҷ Video, 00:01:39'I embrace my alopecia, but IГўВҖВҷd love my old hair backГўВҖВҷ Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. 'I can't enjoy student life until I get a job' University of Sussex student Jordan Andrews says his maintenance loan only covers the bare minimum. Private school's fear over loss of VAT exemption University opens dry bar as student habits change English teacher banned after helping pupils cheat  The town pushing to delay smartphones for children Anxious student's parents welcome new uni guidance Teacher let 'big risk' sex offender on school site The shopping centre helping students feel at home 'I lost two years of income when my son had to miss school' What will happen when VAT is added to private school fees? Everything you need to know about student loans Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Follow In Pictures In pictures: Destruction caused by Hurricane Helene  Helene is now barrelling across Georgia towards Tennessee and the Carolinas after devastating Florida with fierce winds and flash flooding. Ethiopia festival fires burn bright despite downpour Bird on a wire and other winning photos TV stars on Emmy Awards red carpet Striking image of a whale feeding wins photo award Royal Observatory's photographer of the year won with eclipse image Rare dragonfly and bird photos in awards final In Pictures: 10,000 miles across US as seen through train window Village shows are declining - but this one is thriving Badgers, birds and bridges star in photo exhibition Why the skies turned red over the UK this weekend WW2 camera used to photograph dig near ancient fort 14-20 September 2024 7-13 September 2024 1-6 September 2024 25-31 August 2024 18-24 August 2024 Your pictures on the theme of 'railways'  Your pictures on the theme of 'still life' We set the theme, you take the pictures Your pictures on the theme of 'summertime' Your pictures on the theme of 'in the kitchen' Ghana's first photojournalist turns 95. Video, 00:02:25Ghana's first photojournalist turns 95 'Why I'm taking pictures of the bins in my town' Video, 00:01:07'Why I'm taking pictures of the bins in my town' Photographers create Exmoor photo library. Video, 00:01:14Photographers create Exmoor photo library Photographer brings famous book of poetry to life. Video, 00:03:00Photographer brings famous book of poetry to life The stunning drone footage teaching us about sharks. Video, 00:01:44The stunning drone footage teaching us about sharks Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Tearing other women down isn't brat, says Apple dance creator Kelley Heyer's video from Charli XCX's Sweat tour concert in New York led to online hate against a fan. Female players finally get management moment in video games Does Netflix's new documentary unmask the real Vince McMahon? New queens prepare to land on Drag Race UK runway Why artist collabs are more popular than ever Huel hit with third ad ban in two months Linkin Park: 'New singer isn't trying to replace anyone' Father of gunman who killed rapper PnB Rock sentenced  How Punjabi megastar Diljit Dosanjh is inspiring the next gen Maddy Cusack's legacy will be 'a voice for girls' Podcasters 'didn't ask for racist jokes to be cut' LFW designer started knitted looks as 'therapy' MrBeast and Amazon named in lawsuit over Beast Games The Plucky Squire: From PokГғВ©mon to a page-turning indie hit The Sims movie involving Margot Robbie confirmed  Podcast duo sorry for jokes about black women Nepotism debate wonГўВҖВҷt stop, accepts Bollywood star Ananya Panday The Perfect Couple: I liked that my character was objectified Microsoft lays off more gaming staff in new cuts Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Follow BBC Verify What satellite data shows about missile damage in Lebanon. Video, 00:01:46What satellite data shows about missile damage in Lebanon After rocket attacks between Hezbollah and Israeli forces ramped up, the damage in southern Lebanon is clear
 Ros Atkins on... Why the US election is crucial to Ukraine Ship carrying explosive fertiliser heads to UK waters LabourГўВҖВҷs housing challenge as planning permission at record low What latest FBI data shows about violent crime Is there a ГӮВЈ22bn ГўВҖВҳblack holeГўВҖВҷ in the UKГўВҖВҷs public finances? Why UK can't just return migrants to France, as Reform says Ros Atkins on how close Trump got to gunman at golf course. Video, 00:02:05Ros Atkins on how close Trump got to gunman at golf course Ros Atkins examines what we know about suspect Ryan Routh. Ros Atkins onГўВҖВҰwhat the polls say, and if we can trust them. Video, 00:02:26Ros Atkins onГўВҖВҰwhat the polls say, and if we can trust them BBC Verify analyses Manchester Airport incident footage. Video, 00:02:46BBC Verify analyses Manchester Airport incident footage Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Why did 2,000 Essex mental health patients die? Audio, 35 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Why did 2,000 Essex mental health patients die? Relatives speak at inquiry into mental health patient deaths in Essex Annual GP visit could cut learning disability deaths ADHD: ГўВҖВҳWeГўВҖВҷre sharing and rationing meds to get byГўВҖВҷ 'Remarkable' boy survived life support switch-off, judge says Anxious student's parents welcome new uni guidance GB's Ferguson wins junior road race & Graham C3 title 'I rely on family because I can't always rely on buses' Access All: Disability News and Mental Health 'I thought my panic attack was a heart attack' Bake Off's Georgie says ADHD gives her hyperfocus Dementia choir Miley Cyrus cover challenges misconceptions 'I manage my pain': Addictive drug prescription rates drop Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. The 40-year-olds who are in bed by 5pm. Audio, 30 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health The 40-year-olds who are in bed by 5pm Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Alison Lapper on life, art, parenting and grief. Audio, 29 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Alison Lapper on life, art, parenting and grief Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Paralympics 2024: The Prosthesis Menders. Audio, 27 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Paralympics 2024: The Prosthesis Menders Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Paralympics 2024: The gold edition. Audio, 18 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Paralympics 2024: The gold edition Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Paralympics 2024: Where do you keep your medal? Audio, 20 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Paralympics 2024: Where do you keep your medal? The BBC News app is available for Android and iOS devices With the latest news and analysis from our journalists around the world and the unique human stories behind current events, we've got the best of our journalism in one place on the BBC News app. Click here, external to download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here, external to download the BBC News app from Google Play for Android devices. If you're outside the UK, you can download the BBC app here, external. Features include:  News, features and analysis Read top stories and breaking news Watch live and developing news coverage Get news and weather local to you Follow news that's important to you Get alerts for top stories We would like to know what you think of the new app - click here to give us your feedback. Depending on the contract you have, data charges may apply for accessing the internet on your mobile device. If you are not sure about the potential charges, please ask your mobile network provider. You may find some costs are included in your existing price plan or that you can opt for a data package that gives reduced charges for accessing the internet. The BBC does not charge you to access mobile content. Microsoft says it has ГўВҖВңlistened to feedbackГўВҖВқ following a privacy row over a new tool which takes regular screenshots of usersГўВҖВҷ activity. It was labelled a potential ГўВҖВңprivacy nightmareГўВҖВқ by critics when it was unveiled in May 2024 - prompting the tech giant to postpone its release. It now plans to relaunch the artificial intelligence (AI) powered tool in November on its new CoPilot+ computers. Some of its more controversial features have been stripped out - for example, it will be opt-in whereas the original version was turned on by default. The controversy over Recall had led the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), the UKГўВҖВҷs data watchdog, to ГўВҖВңmake enquiriesГўВҖВқ with the tech giant about the tool. It said it had now been informed that a "series of changes" had been made to the product. "We will be continuing to assess Recall as Microsoft moves toward launch", it said in a statement. When it initially announced the tool at its developer conference in May, Microsoft said it used AI "to make it possible to access virtually anything you have ever seen on your PC", and likened it to having photographic memory. It said Recall could search through a users' past activity, including their files, photos, emails and browsing history. It was designed to help people find things they had looked at or worked on previously by searching through desktop screenshots taken every few seconds. But critics quickly raised concerns, given the quantity of sensitive data the system would harvest, with one expert labelling it a potential ГўВҖВңprivacy nightmare." Recall was never made publicly available. A version of the tool was set to be rolled out with CoPilot+ computers - which Microsoft billed as the fastest, most intelligent Windows PCs ever built - when they launched in June, after Microsoft told users it had made changes to make it more secure. But its launch was delayed further and has now been pushed back to the autumn. The company has also announced extra security measures for it. ГўВҖВңRecall is an opt-in experience. Snapshots and any associated information are always encrypted," said Pavan Davuluri, Microsoft's corporate vice president of Windows and devices. He added that "Windows offers tools to help you control your privacy and customise what gets saved for you to find later". However a technical blog about it states that ГўВҖВңdiagnostic dataГўВҖВқ from the tool may be shared with the firm depending on individual privacy settings. The firm added that screenshots can only be accessed with a biometric login, and sensitive information such as credit card details will not be snapped by default. Recall is only available on the CoPilot+ range of bespoke laptops featuring powerful inbuilt AI chips. Professor Alan Woodward, a cybersecurity expert at Surrey University, said the new measures were a significant improvement. ГўВҖВңBefore any functionality like Recall is deployed the security and privacy aspects will need to be comprehensively tested,ГўВҖВқ he said. However he added he would not be rushing to use it. ГўВҖВңPersonally I would not opt-in until this has been tested in the wild for some time.ГўВҖВқ UK watchdog looking into Microsoft AI taking screenshots Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. It descended into chaos 'My liquid BBL was safe ГўВҖВ“ I still regret it' Penguin chicks survive tearaway iceberg They were arrested for posting during the riots ГўВҖВ“ will it change anything? Island mourns Shawn Seesahai machete murder 4,000 miles away Families of 43 missing students in Mexico are still demanding justice Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Instagram owner Meta says Dame Judi Dench and John Cena will be voice options for its artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot. Users will also be able to get information from AI versions of Awkwafina, Keegan-Michael Key or Kristen Bell. Meta will be hoping this use of celebrity chatbots goes better than its last attempt. In September 2023, it debuted what it called AI chatbots with "personality", based on celebrities such as Kendall Jenner and Snoop Dogg, only to pull the plug less than a year later. The technology giant's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, announced its new foray into celebrity chatbots during the company's annual Connect conference. ГўВҖВңI think that voice is going to be a way more natural way of interacting with AI than text," he told attendees. Other new offerings for the ChatGPT-like chatbot include it being able to recognise things users photograph, and give them information about them. An image editing feature will allow users to alter photos by telling the Meta AI what changes they want. The firm said that more than 400 million people were now using Meta AI a month, with 185 million of them returning to it every week. Mr Zuckerberg also unveiled the first working prototype of Meta's augmented-reality (AR) glasses, called Orion. Mark Zuckerberg shows off Meta's Orion augmented reality glasses Showing off the Orion glasses, Mr Zuckerberg said: ГўВҖВңA lot of people have said this is the craziest technology theyГўВҖВҷve ever seen.ГўВҖВқ Users will be able to interact with Orion through hand-tracking, voice and wrist-based interface. Meta also announced an entry-level version of its Quest line of mixed-reality headsets, with prices for the new Quest 3S starting at $300 (ГӮВЈ225). Some of the world's biggest technology firms have been developing AR glasses but have not yet launched commercially successful mass market devices. In recent years, Meta has pumped billions of dollars into developing AI, AR and other metaverse technologies. The company expects to spend as much as $40bn on new projects this year, a record high. Before the event, Meta's shares ended Wednesday's trading day at a record high of $568.31. The company - which also owns social media platforms Facebook and WhatsApp - has seen its stock market value rise by more than 60% since the start of this year. However, ahead of Meta's annual showcase, thousands of Facebook and Instagram users, including many celebrities, shared a Stories post that falsely claimed people had to repost it if they did not want the firm to use their content to train its AI tools. James McAvoy and Tom Brady were among those who fell for the hoax. A Meta spokesperson confirmed users can only object to having their content used by submitting an objection form. This can be accessed by clicking on a notification sent to users about the plans, or by going to the privacy centre under account settings. Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. This video can not be played Companies are being warned about the increasing use of AI to carry out so-called CEO Fraud. More victims are coming forward with their stories of being targeted using generative AI techniques and one case in Hong Kong reportedly saw an AI clone used during a video meeting to trick staff into losing $25m. But while some fear the rise of AI clones, companies including Zoom say we should be excited about a future where your clone can go to a meeting on your behalf. Cyber correspondent Joe Tidy has had an AI clone of himself built by engineers at Fraia AI - watch to see if he can fool his colleagues with it. You can see a longer version of this report, and more on AI clones, on Click this weekend. Watch: Can BBC reporter's AI clone fool his colleagues? Up Next. Video, 00:01:07Watch: BBC correspondent records moment air strike hits Beirut A look back at Dame Maggie Smith's career. Video, 00:02:56A look back at Dame Maggie Smith's career BBC visits scene of Israeli air strike in Lebanese village. Video, 00:01:46What satellite data shows about missile damage in Lebanon Dramatic flooding and rescues as Hurricane Helene hits Florida. Video, 00:01:03Dramatic flooding and rescues as Hurricane Helene hits Florida Ros Atkins on... Why the US election is crucial to Ukraine Watch: Deserted streets in Israel's border towns. Video, 00:01:03Watch: Deserted streets in Israel's border towns Doctor denies carrying out 'intrusive' STI tests for Fayed. Video, 00:00:43Doctor denies carrying out 'intrusive' STI tests for Fayed Watch: The NYC mayor's dramatic day in under 60 seconds. Video, 00:00:56Watch: The NYC mayor's dramatic day in under 60 seconds Watch: Building collapses into river in India. Video, 00:00:25Watch: Building collapses into river in India Watch: Hijacked bus chased by police through downtown LA. Video, 00:00:20Watch: Hijacked bus chased by police through downtown LA Victims of Mohamed Al Fayed tell BBC of alleged rape and trafficking. Video, 00:02:45Victims of Mohamed Al Fayed tell BBC of alleged rape and trafficking Starmer's conference speech in under two minutes. Video, 00:01:53Starmer's conference speech in under two minutes Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Facebook parent company Meta has been fined ГўВӮВ¬91m (ГӮВЈ75m) by the Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC) following an investigation into the storage of passwords. An inquiry was launched in April 2019 after Meta notified the DPC that it had inadvertently stored certain passwords of social media users on its internal systems without encryption. The DPC submitted a draft decision to other European data watchdogs in June 2024. No objections were raised by the other authorities. Meta has been found to have four breaches of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). DPC deputy commissioner Graham Doyle said: ГўВҖВңIt is widely accepted that user passwords should not be stored in 'plaintext' considering the risks of abuse that arise from persons accessing such data. "It must be borne in mind, that the passwords the subject of consideration in this case are particularly sensitive, as they would enable access to usersГўВҖВҷ social media accounts." he added. The decision, which was made by the commissioners for data protection, Dr Des Hogan and Dale Sunderland, and notified to Meta on 26 September, includes a reprimand and a fine. In May 2023, Meta was fined ГўВӮВ¬1.2bn (ГӮВЈ1bn) for mishandling data when transferring it between Europe and the United States. That fine was also issued by Ireland's DPC; the largest fine imposed under the EU's GDPR privacy law. In 2022, Meta was fined ГўВӮВ¬265m (ГӮВЈ220m) after data from 533m people in 106 countries was published on a hacking forum having been "scraped" from Facebook years earlier. Follow Europe Trump meets Zelensky and says it's time to end Russia's war The last-minute meeting in New York comes amid Trump's increasing criticism of US funding for the war in Ukraine. Swiss cyclist Furrer dies after crash at Worlds Pope says church must be ashamed of Belgium sexual abuse Facebook parent company fined ГўВӮВ¬91m over password storage Putin proposes new rules for using nuclear weapons Ship carrying explosive fertiliser heads to UK waters Cameroonian separatist leader arrested in Norway Murder of Paris student fuels anger at failed deportation Finland to return pandas to China early due to cost Russia planning to  target nuclear plants, Zelensky says  Climate change supercharged Europe floods - scientists German grandmother and baby missing in Tuscany floods No plans to remove Irish peacekeepers from Lebanon Zelensky looks to Biden to back Ukraine 'victory plan' Checkmate for Russia as global chess ban upheld RussiaГўВҖВҷs war dead tops 70,000 as volunteers face 'meat grinder' Migrants feel less welcome as Germany's far-right rises Notre-Dame restoration reveals Renaissance poet's coffin Ros Atkins on... Why the US election is crucial to Ukraine 'We were surrounded by Russian troops - but escaped' Video, 00:02:52'We were surrounded by Russian troops - but escaped' Watch: Hundreds of paratroopers leap to mark daring WW2 offensive. Video, 00:00:57Watch: Hundreds of paratroopers leap to mark daring WW2 offensive Watch: Russia dissident freed in prisoner swap vows to return. Video, 00:01:19Watch: Russia dissident freed in prisoner swap vows to return Watch: Huge explosion at Russia arms depot. Video, 00:00:24Watch: Huge explosion at Russia arms depot Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Yasuke (left) and Naoe (right) will be the two protagonists in the game Ubisoft has announced its highly-anticipated upcoming game Assassin's Creed Shadows has been delayed until next year. Instead of releasing it on 12 November as previously planned, it has been pushed back to 14 February 2025. It follows the disappointing performance of another of the firm's major titles, Star Wars Outlaws, and concerns from some about how Ubisoft is being run. The game's executive producer Marc-Alexis Cote said the developers "need more time to polish and refine the experience". "We understand this decision will come as disappointing news," he said. "But we sincerely believe this is in the best interest of the game." In a trading update sent to Ubisoft's investors, seen by the BBC, the firm - which is headquartered in France - said despite the game being "feature complete" it needed more time. "The learnings from the Star Wars Outlaws release led us to provide additional time to further polish the title," it reads. Star Wars Outlaws was released in August to strong reviews, but early players complained of bugs and glitches. In its trading update, Ubisoft notes sales of the game were "softer than expected", which it seemed to be putting down to a lack of polish. Mr Cote said the firm would refund fans who had pre-ordered the game, and promised a free expansion to anyone who placed a new pre-order for the revised launch. When it finally arrives, Assassin's Creed Shadows will be the first game in the series to be set in Japan - a setting fans have been clamouring for since the series began in 2007. The decision to push the game back beyond Christmas - usually a lucrative time for game sales - will not have been made lightly. But the sales performance of Star Wars Outlaws caused Ubisoft's shares to take a serious hit, when the firm would have been hoping the game would set it back on course. They have fallen to a price of 11.32 euros a share at the time of writing - the lowest in a decade. A minority investor wrote a letter to the board earlier this month calling for the company to either be taken private or sold to an investor. Ubisoft co-founder and boss Yves Guillemot said the move to push back Assassin's Creed Shadows' launch was a result of the firm's second quarter performance - which "fell sort of our expectations". "We remain committed to creating games for fans and players that everyone can enjoy," he said. Assassin's Creed director: The right time to take series to Japan Star Wars Outlaws maker defends glitches in 'complex' game Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. The world's richest person, Elon Musk, has hit back after not being invited to the UK government's International Investment Summit. He was not invited due to his social media posts during last monthГўВҖВҷs riots, the BBC understands. "I donГўВҖВҷt think anyone should go to the UK when theyГўВҖВҷre releasing convicted pedophiles in order to imprison people for social media posts," Mr Musk claimed on X. Earlier this month, the government released some prisoners to reduce prison overcrowding, but no-one serving sentences for sex offences were included. Following disorder and rioting across the UK in August, some people were jailed for encouraging unrest on social media. During the August riots, Mr Musk posted on X, formerly Twitter, predicting civil war in the UK and repeatedly attacking the prime minister. He also shared, and later deleted, a conspiracy theory about the UK building "detainment camps" on the Falkland Islands for rioters. At the time, ministers said his comments were "totally unjustifiable" and "pretty deplorable". The BBC understands this is why he has not been invited to join hundreds of the worldГўВҖВҷs biggest investors at the event on 14 October. The government declined to comment. The summit is the key moment that PM Sir Keir Starmer hopes will attract tens of billions of pounds in inward funding for business from the worldГўВҖВҷs biggest investors. Mr Musk was invited to last year's event but did not attend. However, he took a starring role in November's AI Summit, including a fireside chat with then-PM Rishi Sunak. Jeremy Hunt, the former Conservative chancellor and now the shadow chancellor, told the BBC it was a "big loss" not to have Mr Musk at the summit. "He told me last year he was planning a new car plant in Europe and had not decided where but the UK was a candidate," Mr Hunt claimed. Rishi Sunak and Elon Musk chatted at a summit on artificial intelligence last year David Yelland, a public relations specialist and former editor of the Sun newspaper, told the BBC that if Mr Musk were to attend the summit, it would be "reputationally disastrous for the whole event". "HeГўВҖВҷs a fan of free speech but he behaves like a child and he posts things that are deeply inaccurate and extremely damaging," he said. "This is not just a guy that is saying stuff in the pub. This is a guy that is encouraging untruths around the world." The governmentГўВҖВҷs decision not to invite Mr Musk to the summit suggests it thinks the potential investment is not worth the reputational risk and opens up uncomfortable questions about the background of other investors it has actively encouraged. Attracting international investment routinely involves charm offensives with investors or nations with questionable human rights records. The government has actively pursued trade links in the Gulf. Sir Keir, for example, publicly boycotted the 2022 World Cup in Qatar as leader of the opposition, but now he and his team routinely visit these nations to drum up trade and investment. A number of top sovereign wealth fund executives are expected at the summit. Mr Musk is said to be turning his attention to a second European gigafactory in addition to his plant in Berlin, Germany, after completing his Mexican plant. Under the Conservatives, the Tesla boss was quietly shown around various UK sites with potential for a gigafactory for cars and batteries. He has previously told journalists he opened the site in Berlin and not the UK partly because of Brexit. Bloomberg estimates Mr Musk's net worth to be around $228bn. That's based largely on the value of his shares in Tesla, of which he owns more than 13%. The company's stock began to soar in value in 2020 as the firm's production increased and it started to deliver regular profits. Who is Elon Musk? 9 Times Elon Musk Went Viral Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. They were arrested for posting during the riots ГўВҖВ“ will it change anything? For Tyler Kay and Jordan Parlour, justice for what they posted on social media has come fast and heavy. Kay, 26, and Parlour, 28, have been sentenced to 38 months and 20 months in prison respectively for stirring up racial hatred online during the summer riots. Charges in the aftermath of the disorder felt like a significant moment, in which people had to face real-life consequences for what they said and did online. There was widespread recognition that false claims and online hate contributed to the violence and racism on British streets in August. In their wake, Prime Minister Keir Starmer said social media ГўВҖВңcarries responsibilityГўВҖВқ for tackling misinformation. More than 30 people found themselves arrested over social media posts. From what IГўВҖВҷve found, at least 17 of those have been charged. The police will have deemed that some of those investigated did not meet the threshold for criminality. And in plenty of cases, the legal system could be the wrong way to deal with social media posts. But some posts that did not cross the line into criminality may still have had real-life consequences. So for those who made them, no day of reckoning. And nor, it seems, for the social media giants whose algorithms, time and time again, are accused of prioritising engagement over safety, pushing content regardless of the reaction it can provoke. X's owner Elon Musk criticised UK authorities for their response to the riots At the time of the riots, I had wondered whether this could be the moment that finally changed the online landscape. Now, though, IГўВҖВҷm not so sure. To make sense of the role of the social media giants in all this, itГўВҖВҷs useful to start by looking at the cases of a dad in Pakistan and a businesswoman from Chester. On X (formerly known as Twitter) a pseudo-news website called Channel3Now posted a false name of the 17-year-old charged over the murders of three girls in Southport. This false name was then widely quoted by others. Another poster who shared the false name on X was Bernadette Spofforth, a 55-year-old from Chester with more than 50,000 followers. She had previously shared posts raising questions about lockdown and net-zero climate change measures. The posts from Channel3Now and Ms Spofforth also wrongly suggested the 17-year-old was an asylum seeker who had arrived in the UK by boat. All this, combined with further untrue claims from other sources that the attacker was a Muslim, was widely blamed for contributing to the riots - some of which targeted mosques and asylum seekers. I found that Channel3Now was connected to a man named Farhan Asif in Pakistan, as well as a hockey player in Nova Scotia and someone who claimed to be called Kevin. The site appeared to be a commercial operation looking to increase views and sell adverts. At the time, a person claiming to be from Channel3NowГўВҖВҷs management told me that the publication of the false name ГўВҖВңwas an error, not intentionalГўВҖВқ and denied being the origin of that name. And Ms Spofforth told me she deleted her untrue post about the suspect as soon as she realised it was false. She also strongly denied she had made the name up. So, what happened next? The real story of the news website accused of fuelling riots What is Elon Musk's game plan? Elon Musk hits back after being shunned from UK summit Farhan Asif and Bernadette Spofforth were both arrested over these posts not long after I spoke to them. Charges, however, were dropped. Authorities in Pakistan said they could not find evidence that Mr Asif was the originator of the fake name. Cheshire police also decided not to charge Ms Spofforth due to ГўВҖВңinsufficient evidenceГўВҖВқ. Mr Farhan seems to have gone to ground. The Channel3Now site and several connected social media pages have been removed. Bernadette Spofforth, however, is now back posting regularly on X. This week alone sheГўВҖВҷs had more than one million views across her posts. She says she has become an advocate for freedom of expression since her arrest. She says: "As has now been shown, the idea that one single tweet could be the catalyst for the riots which followed the atrocities in Southport is simply not true." Focusing on these individual cases can offer a valuable insight into who shares this kind of content and why. But to get to the heart of the problem, itГўВҖВҷs necessary to take a further step back. While people are responsible for their own posts, IГўВҖВҷve found time and time again this is fundamentally about how different social media sites work. Decisions made under the tenure of Elon Musk, the owner of X, are also part of the story. These decisions include the ability to purchase blue ticks, which afford your posts greater prominence, and a new approach to moderation that favours freedom of expression above all else. The UKГўВҖВҷs head of counter-terror policing, Assistant Commissioner Matt Jukes, told me for the BBCГўВҖВҷs Newscast that ГўВҖВңX was an enormous driverГўВҖВқ of posts that contributed to the summerГўВҖВҷs disorder. Matt Jukes has accused X of playing a significant role in fuelling the riots A team he oversees called the Internet Referral Unit noticed ГўВҖВңthe disproportionate effect of certain platformsГўВҖВқ, he said. He says there were about 1,200 referrals - posts flagged to police by members of the public - alone in relation to the riots. For him that was ГўВҖВңjust the tip of the icebergГўВҖВқ. The unit saw 13 times more referrals in relation to X than TikTok. Acting on content that is illegal and in breach of terror laws is, in one sense, the easy bit. Harder to tackle are those posts that fall into what Mr Jukes calls the ГўВҖВңlawful but awfulГўВҖВқ category. Newscast: The riots, the police and social media The unit flags such material to sites it was posted on when it thinks it breaches their terms and conditions. But Mr Jukes found Telegram, host of several large groups in which disorder was organised and hate and disinformation were shared, hard to deal with. In Mr JukesГўВҖВҷs view, Telegram has a ГўВҖВңcast-iron determination to not engageГўВҖВқ with the authorities. Elon Musk has accused law enforcement in the UK of trying to police opinions about issues such as immigration and there have been accusations that action taken against individuals posters has been disproportionate. Mr Jukes responds: ГўВҖВңI would say this to Elon Musk if he was here, we were not arresting people for having opinions on immigration. [Police] went and arrested people for threatening to, or inciting others to, burn down mosques or hotels.ГўВҖВқ But while accountability has been felt at ГўВҖВңthe very sharp endГўВҖВқ by those who participated in the disorder and posted hateful content online, Mr Jukes said ГўВҖВңthe people who make billions from providing those opportunitiesГўВҖВқ to post harmful content on social media ГўВҖВңhave not really paid any price at allГўВҖВқ. He wants the Online Safety Act that comes into effect at the start of 2025 bolstered so it can better deal with content that is ГўВҖВңlawful but awfulГўВҖВқ. Telegram told the BBC ГўВҖВңthere is no place for calls to violenceГўВҖВқ on its platform and said ГўВҖВңmoderators removed UK channels calling for disorder when they were discoveredГўВҖВқ during the riots. ГўВҖВңWhile TelegramГўВҖВҷs moderators remove millions of pieces of harmful content each day, user numbers to almost a billion causes certain growing pains in content moderation, which we are currently addressing,ГўВҖВқ a spokesperson said. I also contacted X, which did not respond to the points the BBC raised. X continues to share in its publicly available guidelines that its priority is protecting and defending the user's voice. Almost every investigation I do now comes back to the design of the social media sites and how algorithms push content that triggers a reaction, usually regardless of the impact it can have. During the disorder algorithms amplified disinformation and hate to millions, drawing in new recruits and incentivising people to share controversial content for views and likes. Why doesnГўВҖВҷt that change? Well, from what I have found, the companies would have to be compelled to alter their business models. And for politicians and regulators, that could prove to be a very big challenge indeed. BBC InDepth is the new home on the website and app for the best analysis and expertise from our top journalists. Under a distinctive new brand, weГўВҖВҷll bring you fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions, and deep reporting on the biggest issues to help you make sense of a complex world. And weГўВҖВҷll be showcasing thought-provoking content from across BBC Sounds and iPlayer too. WeГўВҖВҷre starting small but thinking big, and we want to know what you think - you can send us your feedback by clicking on the button below. InDepth is the new home for the best analysis from across BBC News. Tell us what you think. James McAvoy has starred in the X-Men film franchise and His Dark Materials television series More than 600,000 people, including many celebrities, have fallen for a hoax claiming to deny Facebook and Instagram owner Meta the right to use their images for training artificial intelligence (AI). Film stars James McAvoy and Ashley Tisdale, as well as former NFL player Tom Brady, are among those who re-shared the fake "Goodbye Meta AI" message on Instagram stories. The hoax claims that by sharing the message, Meta would no longer be able to use their information. In reality, Facebook and Instagram users who want to opt out of AI training can do so in their account settings - and posting about it does nothing. Many of these messages have now been labelled "false information" by Lead Stories, one of Meta's third-party fact-checking sites. The post appears to have been created in opposition to Meta's announcement in June that it will use public posts to train its AI model - but the company has confirmed to the BBC that posting the message has no impact on any userГўВҖВҷs privacy settings. ГўВҖВңSharing this story does not count as a valid form of objection,ГўВҖВқ a Meta spokesperson said. The message has been shared hundreds of thousands of times on Instagram Stories Lead Stories pinpointed the origin of the trend, external to a post on Facebook on 1 September, which used slightly different wording to the version that eventually went viral. But it was not until this week - when large celebrity accounts began to share the post - that the craze took hold, with Google Trends displaying a steep spike in searches for the phrase "Goodbye Meta AI" after 24 September. It is far from the first time that social media has been dominated by such "copypasta" - a term meaning a block of text that is "copied and pasted" frequently online. The fact-checking website Snopes has covered several instances, external from the past decade of users declaring their privacy rights in public messages to no avail. But it is rare to see quite so many high-profile accounts fall for the hoax. Plans for other social media companies to train AI models on public posts have also been met with criticism, with LinkedIn this week reversing its decision to do so in the UK. Caroline Ellison has been sentenced to two years in prison for her role in the collapse of the cryptocurrency exchange FTX, which has been described as one of biggest financial frauds in US history. Ellison, 29, was a top executive at the firm and is also the ex-girlfriend of its founder, Sam Bankman-Fried, who was sentenced to 25 years in prison for stealing more than $8bn (ГӮВЈ6.3bn) from customers. As part of a plea deal, Ellison admitted charges including wire fraud and money laundering, and testified against Bankman-Fried. She was also ordered to forfeit more than $11bn (ГӮВЈ8.2bn) to the court and could pay more if she's ordered to hand over any restitution. She had faced a maximum sentence 55 times what she was given - 110 years in prison. While Judge Lewis Kaplan called her cooperation with prosecutors "remarkable", he said she was "gravely culpable" and that her help and remorse for the crimes should not be a "get out of jail free card", according to Reuters. In court, Ellison apologised to the victims of the scheme, according US media reports. "On some level, my brain can't even comprehend the scale of the harm that I caused," she said. FTX was founded in 2019. Just two years later it had grown into the third biggest crypto exchange in the world, valued at $32bn (ГӮВЈ26bn). Its apparent success turned Bankman-Fried into a billionaire and business celebrity. But, in 2022, rumours of financial trouble sparked a run on its deposits, precipitating the firm's implosion and exposing Bankman-Fried's crimes. He was convicted by a New York jury last year on charges including wire fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering, after a trial that detailed how he had used customers' money for property purchases, investments and political donations. Ellison was one of Bankman-Fried's closest lieutenants and lived and worked in the company's offices and luxury apartments in The Bahamas. The on-and-off couple built the dual empire of FTX and Alameda Research. While Bankman-Fried was arrested and spent time in prison before his trial, Ellison remained free and agreed to help the criminal investigations The revelation that she would testify against her former boyfriend and boss added to the drama of the high-profile trial. Ellison testified over three days, telling the jury that Bankman-Fried directed her and others to take money from FTX's customers without their knowledge. In tearful testimony, she said she felt "indescribably bad" about the fraud. Prosecutors said Ellison met them about 20 times to help them piece together FTX's unravelling, and make their case against Bankman-Fried. Prior to the sentencing, Ellison's legal team had argued the help she provided meant she should not be sent to jail. The US Attorney's office in Manhattan, which brought the charges, had declined to call for a particular sentence, but acknowledged what it called her "extraordinary" cooperation and expression of remorse. In May, Ryan Salame, the co-CEO of FTX's Bahamian subsidiary, was sentenced to 90 months in prison. Salame pleaded guilty in September last year to violating political campaign finance laws and operating an illegal money-transmitting business. The fall of ГўВҖВҳKing of CryptoГўВҖВҷ Sam Bankman-Fried FTX's Sam Bankman-Fried sentenced to 25 years Who is Sam Bankman-Fried? FTX says it has billions more than owed to victims Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow US & Canada At least 43 dead as Helene pummels southeast US  Helene marked one of the largest storms to hit the US, causing widespread devastation across the southeast 'I swam out of my home' - Floridians reel from Helene NYC mayor pleads not guilty to bribery and fraud charges Massive dinosaur skull unearthed in Northern Alberta. Video, 00:01:24Massive dinosaur skull unearthed in Northern Alberta Lana Del Rey reportedly marries alligator tour guide in Louisiana  US charges three Iranians with hacking Trump campaign China is part of the US election - but only from one candidate Sean 'Diddy' Combs facing more allegations of sexual assault Four healthcare workers show symptoms after bird flu exposure BBC Question Time coming to US for election special Alabama carries out second nitrogen gas execution in US  Trump meets Zelensky and says it's time to end Russia's war Cut through the spin with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's take - in your inbox every Wednesday. Dramatic flooding and rescues as Hurricane Helene hits Florida. Video, 00:01:03Dramatic flooding and rescues as Hurricane Helene hits Florida Watch: Hijacked bus chased by police through downtown LA. Video, 00:00:20Watch: Hijacked bus chased by police through downtown LA Video shows chaos after Alabama mass shooting in nightlife district. Video, 00:00:48Video shows chaos after Alabama mass shooting in nightlife district Woman flees after running man over with his own Porsche. Video, 00:00:46Woman flees after running man over with his own Porsche Harris and Oprah hold star-studded rally in Michigan. Video, 00:01:18Harris and Oprah hold star-studded rally in Michigan Foreign bribes, cheap flights: What is Eric Adams accused of? Why Georgia could again be centre of an election storm Does Netflix's new documentary unmask the real Vince McMahon? Murdoch family fights in secret over future of media empire  Biden struggles to contain conflict as Israel and Hezbollah on the brink Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. A major international study suggests there has been a sharp rise in what it calls "problematic" social media use among young people since the pandemic. Researchers came to the conclusion after surveying almost 280,000 children aged 11, 13 and 15 across 44 countries. The Health Behaviour In School-aged Children (HBSC) study found, on average, 11% of respondents engaged with social media in a problematic way in 2022 - compared to 7% in 2018. England, Scotland and Wales all recorded figures above that average. The report's authors say the findings "raise urgent concerns about the impact of digital technology on the mental health and well-being of Europe's youth". They say more action is needed to "promote healthy online behaviours." "Problematic use is most common amongst 13-year-olds - it sort of peaks in that early adolescence phase and girls are more likely to report problematic social media use than boys," said the study's international co-ordinator Dr Jo Inchley, from the University of Glasgow. She said the research also revealed how much time young people spend online. "Across the study as a whole, we found just over a third of adolescents report continuous online contact with friends and others," she said. "That means almost all the time throughout the day they are connected online to friends and other people." How can you keep children safe online? The report does not conclude all that time spent online is detrimental. Instead, teenagers who were heavy, but not problematic, users of social media  reported stronger peer support and social connections. But for the "problematic" minority it found social media use was associated with addiction-like symptoms including: neglect of other activities in favour of spending time on social media frequent arguments about use lying about how much time is spent online an inability to control social media use and experiencing withdrawal It also highlights concerns about the proportion of teenagers considered to be at risk of "problematic gaming" - something it suggests applies to boys more than girls. That designation applied to 15% of teenagers in England - the second highest proportion across all countries studied. The average proportion of boys who played daily was 46%, but this figure stood at 52% in England and 57% in Scotland. And 13-year-old boys in England reported the highest rate of long gaming sessions, with 45% of boys of that age indicating that they played for at least four hours on gaming days. The study has been published by the European arm of the World Health Organisation (WHO). Dr Hans Henri P Kluge, the WHO's regional director for Europe, said the findings made clear social media could have both positive and negative consequences for young people. He said there needed to be more "digital literacy education" to help young people develop a healthy approach to being online, and governments, health authorities, teachers and parents all had to play their part. "It's clear we need immediate and sustained action to help adolescents turn the tide on potentially damaging social media use, which has been shown to lead to depression, bullying, anxiety, and poor academic performance," he said. Ben Carter, Professor of Medical Statistics at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, described the report as a ГўВҖВңuseful snapshot of the evidence". But he pointed out it was difficult to agree on a definition of what ГўВҖВңproblematic social mediaГўВҖВқ was, making gathering data on it challenging. Nonetheless, he said the study was a ГўВҖВңvalid contribution to the evidence base". Tech firms told to hide 'toxic' content from children Instagram boosts privacy and parental control on teen accounts Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. While Trump has been forthright about his views on crypto, Harris' position is much less clear The cryptocurrency industry is ГўВҖВңrife with fraud and hucksters and griftersГўВҖВқ, one of the United StatesГўВҖВҷ top financial regulators has told the BBC. The chair of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Gary Gensler, says the ГўВҖВңinvesting public around the globe has lost too much moneyГўВҖВқ because of crypto companies not following the laws his agency tries to enforce. It comes as the industry is spending millions of dollars on political donations, trying to influence the outcome of NovemberГўВҖВҷs US elections in the hope of more favourable future laws. In addition to the presidential battle between Donald Trump and Kamala Harris, all 435 districts in the House of Representatives are up for re-election, as well as 33 of the 100 seats in the Senate. The future of cryptocurrency, one of the worldГўВҖВҷs most hotly-debated technologies, is an issue where there appears to be a clear dividing line between Donald Trump and the outgoing Biden administration. Trump has been courting the votes of crypto enthusiasts by promising to make America ГўВҖВңthe crypto capital of the planetГўВҖВқ, and creating a ГўВҖВңstrategic national bitcoin stockpileГўВҖВқ similar to the US governmentГўВҖВҷs gold reserves. Last week he launched a new crypto business, external called World Liberty Financial, and although he provided few details, he said ГўВҖВңI think crypto is one of those things we have to doГўВҖВқ. ItГўВҖВҷs a huge turnaround from three years ago, when he dismissed Bitcoin as something that ГўВҖВңseems like a scamГўВҖВқ and a threat to the US dollar. Trump's new-found enthusiasm is a stark contrast to the Biden administration, of which Harris is the vice president. The White House has led a sweeping crackdown on crypto firms in recent years. In March, Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder and boss of FTX was jailed for 25 years for fraud, after he stole billions of dollars from customers around the world, many of whom are still trying to recover their money. Then in April, the founder of the worldГўВҖВҷs biggest crypto exchange, BinanceГўВҖВҷs Changpeng Zhao, got four months in prison, and the company paid a $4.3bn (ГӮВЈ3.2bn) fine. He admitted to allowing criminals, child abusers and terrorists to launder money on his platform, in a case brought by the US Justice Department. The SEC also has a case against Binance going through the courts. It is one of a record-high 46 enforcement actions the financial regulator took last year against firms trying to profit from what is still an emerging technology. The jailing of crypto boss Sam Bankman-Fried highlighted the worst aspects of the crypto sector ГўВҖВңThis is a field that has come along, and just because they're recording their crypto assets on a new accounting ledger, they [wrongly] say ГўВҖВҳwe don't think we want to comply with the time-tested lawsГўВҖВҷ,ГўВҖВқ says Mr Gensler. He explains that rules that force companies that want to raise money from the public to ГўВҖВңshare certain informationГўВҖВқ with them have been in place to protect investors since the SEC was created. This was back in 1934, in the aftermath of the infamous Wall Street crash of 1929 that heralded the Great Depression. ГўВҖВңCrypto is just a small piece of the US and worldwide capital markets, but it can undermine trust that everyday investors have in the capital markets,ГўВҖВқ says Mr Gensler. Whilst fans argue that crypto offers a fast, cheap and secure way to move funds, a survey by the US central bank, the Federal Reserve, found that the number of Americans using it has dropped from 12% in 2021 to 7% last year., external Harris hasnГўВҖВҷt said much about cryptocurrencies, but one of her advisors did say last month that she would ГўВҖВңsupport policies that ensure that emerging technologies, and that sort of industry, can continue to growГўВҖВқ. Recent meetings between her team and industry executives have been trying to build trust, and given crypto bosses hope of a brighter future whoever wins in November. ГўВҖВңI can't underscore enough how important this is, not just for the US, but for the for the world,ГўВҖВқ according to Paul Grewal, who is chief legal officer at crypto firm Coinbase. He has been at these meetings. ГўВҖВңNot only is the US an important market for crypto, but so much of the important technology surrounding has been developed here. And I think it's also critically important that we not lose sight of the fact that the rest of the world is not simply waiting for the US to get its act together.ГўВҖВқ He adds that given how tight the race for the White House is, ГўВҖВңevery vote is going to count, and crypto votes are no exceptionГўВҖВқ. SEC chair Gary Gensler is highly critical of some cryptocurrency firms The clampdown on cryptocurrencies in the US this year has been mirrored in Europe. In April, the European Union agreed new laws, external to try to reduce the risk of crypto being used by criminals. However, other regulators are being slower to act. The G20 group of leading economies is working on minimum standards for cryptocurrencies, but they are not legally binding, and uptake has been slow. Back in the US, a bill to regulate cryptocurrencies has been passed, external by the House, but not the Senate. Its critics argue it will give less protection to consumers. CoinbaseГўВҖВҷs Mr Grewal backs the bill, and says: ГўВҖВңThis is not an industry that is shying away from regulation.ГўВҖВқ He adds that the sector just wants the same standards applied to crypto as are applied to other assets, ГўВҖВңno tougher, but no weakerГўВҖВқ. With NovemberГўВҖВҷs US elections on the horizon, the crypto industry has sensed an opportunity to help elect lawmakers who take a sympathetic view of the businesses. By last month, the sector had already spent an unprecedented $119m on donations,, external according to research by the non-profit  Public Citizen. The consumer advocacy organisationГўВҖВҷs research director Rick Claypool says the money is being used ГўВҖВңto help elect pro-crypto candidates and attack crypto critics, this is regardless of political affiliationГўВҖВқ. TheyГўВҖВҷve spent more than any other industry when it comes to corporate donations, because they ГўВҖВңare attempting to discipline the US congress to give in to their demands for less oversight, and to weaken protections for consumers,ГўВҖВқ he adds. What's the point of buying the latest smartphone? Women in tech groups 'canГўВҖВҷt run on inspiration alone' Climate change leaves future of Pacific Islands tourism 'highly uncertain' MГғВЎlaga tourism: 'People feel the city is collapsing' Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. The messaging app Telegram has said it will hand over users' IP addresses and phone numbers to authorities who have search warrants or other valid legal requests. The change to its terms of service and privacy policy "should discourage criminals", CEO Pavel Durov said in a Telegram post on Monday. ГўВҖВңWhile 99.999% of Telegram users have nothing to do with crime, the 0.001% involved in illicit activities create a bad image for the entire platform, putting the interests of our almost billion users at risk,ГўВҖВқ he continued. The announcement marks a significant reversal for Mr Durov, the platformГўВҖВҷs Russian-born co-founder who was detained by French authorities last month at an airport just north of Paris. Days later, prosecutors there charged him with enabling criminal activity on the platform. Allegations against him include complicity in spreading child abuse images and trafficking of drugs. He was also charged with failing to comply with law enforcement. Mr Durov, who has denied the charges, lashed out at authorities shortly after his arrest, saying that holding him responsible for crimes committed by third parties on the platform was both "surprising" and "misguided." Critics say Telegram has become a hotbed of misinformation, child pornography, and terror-related content partly because of a feature that allows groups to have up to 200,000 members. Meta-owned WhatsApp, by contrast, limits the size of groups to 1,000. Telegram was scrutinised last month for hosting far-right channels that contributed to violence in English cities. Earlier this week, Ukraine banned the app on state-issued devices in a bid to minimise threats posed by Russia. The arrest of the 39-year old chief executive has sparked debate about the future of free-speech protections on the internet. After Mr Durov's detention, many people began to question whether Telegram was actually a safe place for political dissidents, according to John Scott-Railton, senior researcher at the University of Toronto's Citizen Lab. He says this latest policy change is already being greeted with even more alarm in many communities. "TelegramГўВҖВҷs marketing as a platform that would resist government demands attracted people that wanted to feel safe sharing their political views in places like Russia, Belarus, and the Middle East," Mr Scott-Railton said. "Many are now scrutinizing Telegram's announcement with a basic question in mind: does this mean the platform will start cooperating with authorities in repressive regimes?" Telegram has not given much clarity on how the company will handle the demands from leaders of such regimes in the future, he added. Cybersecurity experts say that while Telegram has removed some groups in the past, it has a far weaker system of moderating extremist and illegal content than competing social media companies and messenger apps. Before the recent policy expansion, Telegram would only supply information on terror suspects, according to 404 Media, external. On Monday Mr Durov said the app was now using ГўВҖВңa dedicated team of moderators" who were leveraging artificial intelligence to conceal problematic content in search results. But making that type of material harder to find likely wonГўВҖВҷt be enough to fulfill requirements under French or European law, according to Daphne Keller at Stanford UniversityГўВҖВҷs Center for Internet and Society. ГўВҖВңAnything that Telegram employees look at and can recognize with reasonable certainty is illegal, they should be removing entirely,ГўВҖВқ Ms Keller said. In some countries, they also need to notify authorities about particular kinds of seriously illegal content such as child sexual abuse material, she added. Ms Keller questioned whether the company's changes would be enough to satisfy authorities seeking information about targets of investigations, including who they are communicating with and the content of those messages. "It sounds like a commitment that is likely less than what law enforcement wants," Ms Keller said. Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. GP services in England and Northern Ireland faced huge disruption following IT problems caused by a software update by CrowdStrike GPs couldn't treat patients, people were stranded as planes couldn't get off the ground, and small businesses lost much-needed sales. Two months on from the global IT outage on 19 July, its full impact is only now becoming apparent. A rogue software update by the US cybersecurity company CrowdStrike crippled up to eight and half million computers using Microsoft systems around the world. Adam Meyers - a senior executive at CrowdStrike - will testify at the US Congress on Tuesday. He will speak of being "deeply sorry", external about what happened, and his company's determination to "prevent it from happening again." But what was it like for those on the sharp end of the crisis? Dr David Wrigley, a GP for the past 22 years, told the BBC about cancer referrals being delayed as the online systems doctors like him rely on went dark. "It was a very difficult period of time with very little help and support," he said. Dr David Wrigley has called on NHS England and the UK government to provide GPs with much more support if this ever happened again For many GPs, they were unable to use the EMIS system - a digital way of managing appointment bookings and patient records, as well as sending prescriptions to pharmacies. The British Medical Association - the trade union and professional body for doctors and medical students in the UK - said the CrowdStrike outage, external was "one of the toughest single days in recent times for GPs across England", with doctors forced to return to pen and paper. At Dr Wrigley's practice in Carnforth, Lancashire, computer problems continued between Friday and Monday. He said this created a backlog that delayed urgent tasks such as writing referral letters for patients with suspected cancers. In some cases, this would have been delayed by "three or four days". "You have to prioritise those and send them as soon as possible," he said. "All the referrals we do are done electronically - that couldnГўВҖВҷt happen." In her 27 years as a GP, Dr Frances O'Hagan says the only disruption similar to the CrowdStrike outage was Covid and a bomb scare outside her practice in Armagh during the Troubles Elsewhere, the BMA said there were also major problems in Northern Ireland, external. Around 75% of GPs in Northern Ireland use the EMIS system according to Dr Frances O'Hagan, the chair of BMA's Northern Ireland GP committee. "We couldn't do anything for most people," she said. "We just had to take it on the chin and get on with it." She said GPs in Northern Ireland faced similar backlogs to colleagues in England, including a delay to suspected cancer referrals. The Department of Health told the BBC it is in discussion with "external suppliers" to strengthen "continuity arrangements" following the CrowdStrike outage. It says GPs had access to "local copies" of patient data from EMIS during the outage, and all other systems worked. NHS warns of GP disruption next week after IT outage CrowdStrike sued by shareholders over global outage Professor Kamila Hawthorne, Chair of the Royal College of GPs, told the BBC it was "crucial" that there should be "safeguards in place" in the future. In Surrey, 50 patients who were due to receive radiotherapy treatment on the day of the outage were forced to reschedule., external  A spokesperson from NHS Royal Surrey Trust said all urgent cases were seen within 24 hours. NHS England did not comment. The UK government told BBC News contingency plans were quickly enacted, and said it is working with NHS England to help prevent similar incidents. On the west coast of the United States, meanwhile, Providence healthcare operates 53 hospitals and over 1,000 clinics. Adam Zoller is in charge of cyber security for the company. He describes the first few hours as "a catastrophe" for hospital IT systems, but 80% were fixed in 48 hours. The hospitals did cancel non-emergency procedures, but Adam said "in large parts patient care was unaffected". "CrowdStrike could have handled this in a lot of different ways, and I think they handled it as well as they could have." These passengers at Eindhoven Airport in the Netherlands were among the many travellers disrupted by the CrowdStrike outage Melanie Cree and her husband Alan, from Bangor in Northern Ireland, were due to fly home from Corfu Airport on the day of the outage. Travel operators were forced to cancel thousands of flights across the world - and Melanie and Alan's flight was axed. After being taken to and from the airport several times in the next few days, they managed to fly home on Monday. Melanie and Alan had been on a two-week holiday on the Greek island with friends to enjoy their 40th wedding anniversary Melanie said passengers were given no food, and some ran out of medication. "It totally ruined what should have been our dream holiday," she said. "We have lovely memories, but we came back absolutely shattered. It was complete chaos." Their provider Tui gave them a ГӮВЈ400 voucher. Laura Jones, pictured with her family on their holiday in Rhodes, said the whole experience has put her off foreign travel for a while As Melanie and Alan struggled in Corfu, another UK family were caught up in the delays just over 500 miles (804km) away. Laura and Malcolm Jones were struggling to return home to Pontypool, in south Wales, after a holiday in Rhodes with their children. When they were on the tarmac, the flight was cancelled. Laura told the BBC there was no information, no return of bags, and no plan. They spent 16 hours at the airport before they were taken to a conference centre, where frustrated travellers used tablecloths as blankets. The family paid ГӮВЈ560 out of their own pockets to fly back to the UK a few days later. Tui has given them a ГӮВЈ600 voucher. "I was looking forward to travelling abroad again after Covid, but I think I might just stick going to west Wales for a few years," Laura joked. In a statement, Tui apologised to its customers. The CrowdStrike outage had an impact at airports around the world, with these weary passengers pictured in Detroit, Michigan But the travel company was not the only one with problems. Delta Airlines in the United States faced a huge impact. It cancelled around 7,000 flights over five days, faces an investigation from the US authorities and is involved in several legal actions. Back in the UK, small business owner Dawn Watts from Market Drayton, Staffordshire was caught up in the outages in a different way - her website, which provides supplies to cleaning companies and hotels, was out of action. She estimates to have lost about ГӮВЈ600 in sales. "It is extremely worrying," she said. "I am a sole trader - I canГўВҖВҷt have this happening again." Dawn Watts was particularly worried by the CrowdStrike outage, as she didn't have the support of a big company behind her. Hannah Al-Khaldi, who runs a boutique fitness studio in London, faced similar issues with a non-functional website. She estimates the outage cost her ГӮВЈ1,000. "It showed how many systems worldwide had put their eggs in one basket," she said. "When one link in the chain fails, everything else goes down. "Is there enough choice out there for providers, or was CrowdStrike the only option?" Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Half a billion fans, a multi-million dollar personal fortune and a global business empire. It would take a lot to dethrone YouTube's biggest influencer Jimmy Donaldson, aka MrBeast. But a 54-page court document could be his toughest test yet. Five female contestants on upcoming Prime Video show Beast Games are launching legal action against his production company MrB2024 and Amazon in Los Angeles. Billed as the largest ever reality competition series, 1,000 contestants are set to compete for a $5m (ГӮВЈ3.7m) prize when the show airs - or if it airs. The lawsuit has plunged the show into crisis. Among many redacted pages, the legal document includes allegations that they "particularly and collectively suffered" in an environment that "systematically fostered a culture of misogyny and sexism". It cuts to the core of MrBeast's image as one of the nicest guys on the internet. I flicked through the document, which includes suggestions that participants were "underfed and overtired". Meals were provided "sporadically and sparsely" which "endangered the health and welfare" of the contestants, it is claimed. In one section where almost all of the claims are redacted from public view, it says the defendants "created, permitted to exist, and fostered a culture and pattern and practice of sexual harassment including in the form of a hostile work environment". Back in August, the New York Times spoke to more than a dozen, external of the (yet unreleased) show's participants, and reported there were "several hospitalisations" on the set, with one person telling the paper they had gone over 20 hours without being fed. Contestants also alleged they had not received their medication on time. The BBC has approached MrBeast and Amazon - he has not yet publicly commented. So will these latest allegations hurt the king of YouTube's popularity? MrBeast has a huge fan base - but is grappling with controversies  MrBeast is no stranger to controversy this year - and has managed to come out unscathed each time. In July, the 26-year-old American said he had hired investigators after his former co-host Ava Kris Tyson was accused of grooming a teenager. Ava denied the allegations, but has apologised for "past behaviour" which was "not acceptable". MrBeast said he was "disgusted" by the "serious allegations". Later, further allegations about business practices surfaced on an anonymous YouTube channel, claiming to be a former employee. The BBC has not been able to independently verify the claims or this person's identity. Some of his philanthropic efforts - such as building wells in Africa, and paying for surgery for people with reduced sight and hearing - have drawn criticisms around exploitation. "Deaf people like me deserve better than MrBeastГўВҖВҷs latest piece of inspiration porn," one person told the Independent last year, external. But his empire continues to grow. The day before the lawsuit emerged on Wednesday, he revealed a team-up with fellow famous faces KSI and Logan Paul - a new food line designed to challenge Lunchables. And as I wrote in an article about his meteoric rise last year, he has made his millions through hard work. His videos are big budget experiences, with his most popular - viewed 652 million times - recreating the Netflix hit Squid Game in real life, external with a $456,000 (ГӮВЈ342,000) prize. Most of his philanthropy is less controversial - including giving away houses, cash and cars - which has worked to create an image of him being one of the internet's good guys. According to his website, he has delivered more than 25 million meals to the needy around the world. People continue to flock to his social channels. In June, he gained enough subscribers to make his YouTube channel the largest in the world. According to stats-checker Socialblade, external, MrBeast picked up an extra five million subscribers in the last 30 days alone. ThatГўВҖВҷs just one metric - we canГўВҖВҷt tell how many people unsubscribed from his channel, for example. What is certain is that the number of people whoГўВҖВҷve actively decided to stop watching his videos has been eclipsed by those whoГўВҖВҷve decided to subscribe. He wouldn't be the only YouTuber whose popularity holds through controversy - others have faced far more significant storms than MrBeast, with few facing many consequences outside of a public apology. Logan Paul faced a massive backlash in 2018 after he uploaded a video to his 15 million subscribers which showed the body of a person who had apparently taken their own life. After removing the original video, he shared a less than two-minute apology, external titled simply: "So sorry." Now, he has 23 million subscribers, owns an incredibly popular sports drink, and up until August was the WWE United States champion. He's had quite a few pay-per-view boxing bouts, too. Other high-profile YouTubers, including Pewdiepie, James Charles, and Jeffree Star have all had their own controversies, and got on with their careers after uploading apology videos. A more modern example is Herschel "Guy" Beahm, known online as Dr Disrespect, who admitted he sent messages to "an individual minor" in 2017. He stressed that "nothing illegal happened, no pictures were shared, no crimes were committed" and went offline for two months after posting the statement. His comeback livestream earlier this month attracted more than three million views, despite criticism from other high-profile streamers. Dr Disrespect remains the second-most watched streamer in the US this year, according to Streams Charts, external. The point is: YouTubers tend to be forgiven quickly. While MrBeast's fanbase has continued growing, controversy is swirling once again - and his next move could determine his long-term success. James Lunn, chief strategy officer at Savvy Marketing, says the star is "in an incredibly unique position" with a "multi-faceted" brand spanning many industries. "We are indeed in uncharted waters," he says, and "a proactive approach, addressing the issues transparently and ensuring accountability, could protect his brand". Brand expert Catherine Shuttleworth says the "sheer scale" of MrBeastГўВҖВҷs fame may act as a buffer against backlash, but the latest lawsuit could be difficult. "When it comes to his business ventures, particularly those targeting families and children - like Feastables chocolate bars or Lunchly - itГўВҖВҷs a different story," she says. "Parents, who often hold the purchasing power, tend to be less tolerant of controversies involving safety, fairness, and ethics." Back in August 2023, when writing about MrBeast, I predicted he would soon take the YouTube crown despite him having half as many subscribers then. He is now facing extra challenges as his fame rises, and a lot of the internet is eagerly awaiting his reply to what is, so far, one side of a complex story. MrBeast: How the world's biggest YouTuber made his millions MrBeast and Amazon named in lawsuit over Beast Games MrBeast hires investigators over co-host grooming claims Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. TSB has apologised to customers who did not receive payments after a technical issue, and says the problem has now been resolved. Many customers had taken to social media to say they had not been paid their child benefit on Tuesday, while others said they had not received their salaries. The bank said all customers who were due money had now received it. The problems started overnight, with a "small number of customers" affected, it said. TSB has about five million customers, with two million of those "digitally active" online or through telephone banking. The bank had earlier told customers that they would "not be out of pocket" for any charges made for late payments. In a later statement on Tuesday afternoon it said: "We have fixed the issue with BACS payments and have now credited all customer accounts that were due to receive money into them." The Downdetector website, which monitors outages of online services, showed hundreds of complaints about TSB on Tuesday morning, external, with many concerning payments. One user, Olivia, wrote: "At this point, IГўВҖВҷm going to have to borrow money because IГўВҖВҷm overdrawn without an overdraft and need to do a food shop." Many people were expecting their child benefit, which is due every four weeks on a Monday or Tuesday. Writing on X, a user called Nicola told HMRC customer service that she had not received her payment, external. An HMRC spokesperson said: "Some customers who bank with TSB have not received their Child Benefit today due to issues at the bank. All our systems are working and affected customers should contact TSB." The late payment comes after half a million people were left without their child benefit payment in June after a technical issue at HMRC. How much is child benefit worth and who can claim it? Tamagotchi is having a moment - again. The egg-shaped toy housing a virtual pet was one of the biggest crazes of the 1990s. And several attempts to reignite the brand over the years appears to have now paid off for owner Bandai Namco. Global sales more than doubled between 2022 and 2023, it tells the BBC, and Tamagotchi has now opened its first shop in the UK - something it didn't even do when it was 1996's hottest gadget. The London shop, based in Camden Market, is a hub of nostalgia with seemingly countless devices for sale  Unsurprisingly, the modern Tamagotchi isn't the same thing you would have bought in the 1990s. It still looks the same - a garishly coloured egg with a small digital screen and buttons - but the actual toy has much more functionality. "Now you can connect with friends, you can play on Wi-Fi and download different items, and that's really combating that sense of fatigue that you might have gotten with some earlier models," Tamagotchi brand manager Priya Jadeja told the BBC. The virtual pet officially relaunched in the UK in 2019 and has been growing since - with a perhaps surprising mix of players young and old. "When we relaunched, we thought it would be a very millennial-focused relaunch," Ms Jadeja says. "But it's being introduced to kids who've never had this sort of device before - it's really exciting to see them embracing it." Aki Maita (pictured) and Akihiro Yokoi won the Ig Nobel Prize for Economics in 1997 for their invention Unlike in 1996, now there are many other virtual pets on the market. For example Bitzee, made by Hatchimals, uses a flexible display that responds to your touch, and reacts to tilt-based movement. Meanwhile Punirunes has a popular feature where you can place your finger inside the toy to "stroke" the virtual pet on the screen. And there's also Digimon virtual pets - another 1990s throwback - though these are also owned by Bandai Namco, and were originally designed as Tamagotchi for boys. Despite those gender-based lines being drawn back in the day, Jadeja says there doesn't seem to be any real difference in who buys the toys now. For the Tamagotchi fans we spoke to, nostalgia is playing a big role. Emmalution often vlogs about her Tamagotchis on her YouTube channel "I got my first Tamagotchi back in primary school, my best friend had one back then and I have fond memories of playing with them together," says Emma, known on YouTube as Emmalution. She says she "started craving some of that nostalgia". She didn't keep her old Tamagotchi and picked up a modern one last year, she says. "This kickstarted an obsession, absorbing loads of information about all of the releases that had come out after my first ever Tamagotchi," she said. "I started a collection, curious to know what I'd been missing out on whilst I was too busy growing up." Koby has been a fan since he was much younger Koby, known to his fans on YouTube as Lost in Translationmon, agreed. "When I'm playing with my Digimon or Tamagotchi virtual pets, I get a small snapshot of what it was like when I first played with my virtual pets as a kid. "There's also a fantastic sense of community from sharing photos and stories online with other people." And for Emma, there is one other big factor - escapism. "With how the world is at the moment, and how it has been for the past few years, it's nice to just look down at your little pixel pet every now and again, forget it all for a moment to feed it a little snack or play a little game, and remember a much simpler time." Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Hundreds of Sky Glass television and Sky streaming service customers have reported issues with their devices. Users first reported technical glitches seemingly preventing some Sky Glass TVs from working properly, or even turning on, on Thursday evening. Reports to platform outage monitor Downdetector, external were in the hundreds shortly before 21:00 BST on Thursday. But many customers were still flagging issues with their devices on Friday morning. "We are sorry that some Sky Glass and Stream customers are currently experiencing issues when trying to switch on their devices," a Sky Spokesperson said. It said customers should try to manually restart their TVs and devices, by following a guide on its website, external. One user on social media complained to the company's help account on X (formerly Twitter) that their Sky Glass TV had not been working for nearly 11 hours. "We pay a lot of money each month for the use of your services and understand at times faults happen, but 11 hours so far with no end in sight, it's not good," they wrote, external. Sky Glass is a smart TV that works over broadband and allows owners to stream content directly to their device - without the need for an aerial or satellite dish. Users affected by issues with the device have speculated that a faulty update from Sky could be the cause of "bricked" TVs. One user posted a video on X, external showing their television not turning on, with its red standby light slowly flashing. Customers also shared frustrations and tried to find workarounds for the issues on Sky's community forum. One user said they were "regretting buying" their Sky Glass after the technical issues caused them to miss out on TV, including the first half of a Champion's League football match. Users have also been reporting similar issues impacting the Sky Stream "puck" that provides access to film and TV shows from apps including Netflix and Disney+. Sky did not respond to questions about what had caused the issue, or when it expected problems to be resolved. Do you have a Sky Glass TV that youГўВҖВҷre having problems with? We speak to the man who says AI will create call centre jobs вҖ“ rather than replace them. Read more now playing Will AI replace call centre workers? This video can not be played Elon MuskГўВҖВҷs satellite internet company Starlink claims it can bring superfast broadband to ГўВҖВҳalmost anywhere on EarthГўВҖВҷ. It is the largest satellite internet provider around the world, and has already launched in several African countries. But will it be the solution to AfricaГўВҖВҷs patchy broadband access? Reporter: Debula Kemoli Edited by:  Ali Abbas Ahmadi Is Elon MuskГўВҖВҷs Starlink a game changer for Africa? Why the US election is crucial to Ukraine Watch: Can BBC reporter's AI clone fool his colleagues? Watch: Deserted streets in Israel's border towns. Follow Africa 'Rape me, not my daughter' - women tell BBC of sexual violence in Sudan's civil war The BBC hears horrific accounts of rape from women trapped in the conflict between the army and the RSF. Ethiopia festival fires burn bright despite downpour Zimbabwe knocks 40% off value of gold-backed currency 'Seriously ill' Ghanaian activist denied bail Nigeria prison officials suspended over celebrity jail row How Arsenal became synonymous with black identity Is Elon MuskГўВҖВҷs Starlink a game changer for Africa? Fire breathers and snowmen: Africa's week in pictures Toiling on a Kenyan flower farm to send fresh roses to Europe Why Samia's hesitant reforms are fuelling Tanzanian political anger Journalist's apology not enough to satisfy Ghanaian king The journey that helped save Nigeria's art for the nation Fire breathers and snowmen: Africa's week in pictures Jihadist airport assault leaves Mali's junta rattled What difference will Ghana's new gender law make? Luvanga on 'hero' Ronaldo and 'becoming best in Africa' Best goalkeeper award nomination ГўВҖВҳsurrealГўВҖВҷ - Williams Too many games 'not good for football' - African boss Motsepe 'Controlling 22 players on the field is amazing' Infrastructure 'must improve' for Africa to win World Cup Why is Turkey deepening its ties with Somalia? Video, 00:03:59Why is Turkey deepening its ties with Somalia? Funeral of Ugandan Olympian killed by ex-partner takes place. Video, 00:00:42Funeral of Ugandan Olympian killed by ex-partner takes place Rebecca Cheptegei: ГўВҖВҳAn inspiration to girls in her community' Video, 00:03:08Rebecca Cheptegei: ГўВҖВҳAn inspiration to girls in her community' Meet Mauritius' 'Wonder Woman' hoping for Paralympic gold. Video, 00:02:26Meet Mauritius' 'Wonder Woman' hoping for Paralympic gold Nigerian makes badminton history for Africa. VideoNigerian makes badminton history for Africa Live: World Service for Africa Focus on Africa Podcast. AudioFocus on Africa Podcast Africa Daily podcast The Comb podcast This is Africa Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. How live updating of online maps is helping humanitarian work around the world. Read more now playing Online maps How live updating of online maps is helping humanitarian work around the world. Will AI replace call centre workers? This video can not be played A school in Sheffield has banned the use of smart devices including phones and watches. Forge Valley School no longer allows the use of smartphones, watches or headphones on its premises. Any student found to be using them has to hand them in, with the gadgets not returned for 24 hours. Head teacher Dale Barrowclough said children were previously left "zombie-like" as they were "glued to their mobile phones". One pupil said: "I'm finding myself speaking to a lot more people so I think it's helpful." Video by Amy Garcia and Jacob Tomlinson School calls time on pupils' smart devices. Video, 00:02:54School calls time on pupils' smart devices Up Next. Follow South Yorkshire Accounting error creates ГӮВЈ65m hole in police funds Money borrowed for essential services has not been repaid for several years, the mayor says. Farmer aiming to make hay in the boxing ring Why I paint fried eggs: My unusual art's story Man groomed and raped girl in 'degrading' campaign Veterans 'let down' by sale of military cottages Woman fights for her life after A57 crash 'Madness' saw rioter rip off police van mirror Derby kick-off pushed back for Remembrance Sunday Battery storage facility plans submitted Developer wins appeal to build 200 new homes Yorkshire worst region for bank access - report Homes evacuated after 'potential explosives' found Tonight, Low Low of 5ГӮВ° Saturday 28 September,SatГӮВ 28th High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 4ГӮВ° Sunday 29 September,SunГӮВ 29th High of 12ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Monday 30 September,MonГӮВ 30th High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Tuesday 1 October,TueГӮВ 1st High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 8ГӮВ° Sheffield egg art: Hard to beat. BBC Radio Sheffield. Audio, 00:04:21Sheffield egg art: Hard to beat BBC Radio Sheffield Sheffield derby kick-off pushed back. Audio, 00:01:35Sheffield derby kick-off pushed back BBC Radio Sheffield Sheffield show must go on! Audio, 00:02:01Sheffield show must go on! BBC Radio Sheffield Dutch-Style Roundabout comes to Sheffield. Audio, 00:03:42Dutch-Style Roundabout comes to Sheffield BBC Radio Sheffield Sheffield: MMA training for vulnerable people. Audio, 00:02:26Sheffield: MMA training for vulnerable people BBC Radio Sheffield Evans disappointed with slow Rotherham start Rotherham boss Steve Evans says he understands the fans' frustration as they look to end their near two-year wait for an away win. Coad boosts wickets tally against Northants County Championship 2024 team of the season as chosen by you Durham-Kent and four Division Two games rained off All-rounder Bess signs new Yorkshire deal What's at stake during County Championship finale? Hamer free-kick enough for Sheffield United to see off Derby Sheffield Wednesday v West Bromwich Albion Doncaster Rovers v Chesterfield Shrewsbury Town v Rotherham United Portsmouth v Sheffield United Barnsley v Stockport County Accounting error creates ГӮВЈ65m hole in police funds Man threatened and spat at ambulance workers Evans disappointed with slow Rotherham start Man groomed and raped girl in 'degrading' campaign Farmer aiming to make hay in the boxing ring Why I paint fried eggs: My unusual art's story Veterans 'let down' by sale of military cottages Woman fights for her life after A57 crash Homes evacuated after 'potential explosives' found 'Madness' saw rioter rip off police van mirror Durham-Kent and four Division Two games rained off Derby kick-off pushed back for Remembrance Sunday Battery storage facility plans submitted Rioter whose mum saw him on TV news is jailed University delays pay rise in 'challenging time' Water firm invests ГӮВЈ6m to cut storm discharges Homelessness charity faces 'funding cliff-edge' Junk food adverts to be banned on buses and trains EFL Trophy: Harrogate beat Liverpool U21s on penalties Instagram TikTok Facebook X MPs in airline talks at Labour conference as Doncaster Airport fight goes on Missing man took own life on day he was found guilty of sex offences Yorkshire man who committed ГўВҖВҳappallingГўВҖВҷ sexual offences and ГўВҖВҳposes significant dangerГўВҖВҷ to children is jailed How to attract Gen Z into teaching: The new plan pushing for pay rises and more flexible hours Government 'looking at curriculum' in order to address digital skills gap, says tech Minister Black market sale of fake cigarettes is booming, study finds Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. What do social media users do when their preferred platform is banned ? Read more now playing X in Brazil What do social media users do when their preferred platform is banned ? Online maps How live updating of online maps is helping humanitarian work around the world. In July a botched software update caused chaos for the airline industry worldwide  When the CrowdStrike software bug bricked 8.5 million computers around the world on 19 July, some of the first people to notice the effects were air travellers. Anthony Bosman, an academic at Andrews University in Michigan was trying to board his flight from Michigan to Florida when he realised he couldnГўВҖВҷt download a mobile boarding pass to his smartphone. So he went to check in at the airport, in person, and watched in amazement as an airline employee looked up his name on a paper list and then wrote out his boarding pass  ГўВҖВ“ by hand. ГўВҖВңIt felt like a blast from the past,ГўВҖВқ he recalls. ГўВҖВңThe ticket agent, I remember how she commented that her hand was tired from having to write so many of them.ГўВҖВқ His flight took off as planned. Multiple other passengers, including many in India, reported having the same experience that day. The CrowdStrike bug also hit banks, telecoms firms, health services and online retailers. This week a senior executive at the firm appeared before a US congressional committee and said he was "deeply sorry" for the chaos caused. For a brief moment in July, some organisations had to forget about their computer-based processes and do things the old-fashioned way. If you look through articles about past cyber-attacks and IT failures on the BBC News website, youГўВҖВҷll find countless examples of organisations that have had to ГўВҖВңgo back to pen and paperГўВҖВқ in the face of disruption. British GPs, staff at foreign exchange firm Travelex, medics at Rouen hospital in France and employees of Lincolnshire County Council have all experienced this. It sounds an almost pitiful predicament. And yet, while it certainly isnГўВҖВҷt desirable, some cyber-experts are now advising companies to plan for switching to paper-based processes in the event of IT failure. Rather than an ad hoc workaround, pen and paper systems could be something staff practise using from time to time so that they can switch away from their computers seamlessly if required. When Norsk Hydro was hacked in 2019 thousands of staff were locked out of the company systems One company that knows the value of paper is Norsk Hydro, a Norwegian aluminium and renewable energy firm. In 2019, hackers targeted Hydro with ransomware that locked staff out of more than 20,000 computers. Bosses at Hydro decided they would not pay a ransom fee to restore access, meaning that 35,000 staff working across 40 countries had to find other ways of doing their jobs, temporarily. They dug old binders out of basements with instructions on how to produce particular aluminium products, for instance, recalls Halvor Molland, a spokesman for Hydro. At some locations, by sheer chance, staff had printed out order requests just before the cyber-attack hit. ГўВҖВңTheir creativityГўВҖВҰ was tremendous,ГўВҖВқ says Mr Molland. While computers with customer information and company data were locked out, factory equipment was mercifully unaffected by the ransomware. At some facilities, staff bought computers and printers from local retailers so they could print off information for factory workers. And vintage office kit came in handy. ГўВҖВңWe actually had to dust off some old telefaxes,ГўВҖВқ remembers Mr Molland. Although production fell by up to 50% at certain plants, these workarounds kept the business going. ГўВҖВңYou need to do what you need to do,ГўВҖВқ as Mr Molland puts it. Reflecting, he suggests that companies might want to keep printed copies of key information such as internal telephone numbers or checklists so that some work can continue even in the event of a massive cyber-attack. For some tasks Norsk Hydro had to work off paper instructions after the hack ГўВҖВңPeople have realised the importance of having these manual methods because of the severity of some of the recent cyber-attacks and IT outages,ГўВҖВқ says Chris Butler, resilience director at disaster recovery and business continuity firm Databarracks. He mentions one customer his company works with ГўВҖВ“ an industrial distribution firm ГўВҖВ“ that has put together "disaster recovery packsГўВҖВқ and sent them to all of its branches. The packs include paper forms and a fax machine ГўВҖВ“ a contingency in case their digital ordering system becomes unavailable. ГўВҖВңIf that goes down, their only alternative, they realised, was to have these forms.ГўВҖВқ Mr Butler suggests that companies have a training day where employees practise using flipcharts and whiteboards instead of computers, to see if they can still do their jobs effectively that way. Some organisations recommend using paper for security reasons. Parts of the US court system require certain documents to be filed on either paper, for example, or a secure device such as an encrypted USB drive. Obviously there are limits to paper-based processes. Mr Butler notes that if bankers, for example, lose access to their trading terminals during an IT incident, they canГўВҖВҷt easily switch to paper-based alternatives. The biggest problem with pen and paper systems is that they donГўВҖВҷt scale well, says Gareth Mott, from the Royal United Services Institute. ItГўВҖВҷs slower than using a computer for many tasks ,and itГўВҖВҷs hard or perhaps impossible to coordinate thousands of employees using such methods across multiple office locations. But practising workarounds really can help, adds Dr Mott. He and colleagues have researched how ГўВҖВңwar-gamingГўВҖВқ and IT failure roleplay exercises can impact employeesГўВҖВҷ responses to real-life cyber-attacks. ГўВҖВңWe found that the companies that had done that, sometimes a few weeks before they had a live incident, really benefitted,ГўВҖВқ he says. ItГўВҖВҷs not just pen and paper that could come in handy. Dr Mott is aware of one firm that bought ГўВҖВңcrates worth of ChromebooksГўВҖВқ for staff in the wake of a cyber-incident, so that they could work without needing access to the company network. Some companies might have dormant WhatsApp or Signal messaging groups that they can ask employees to use for internal communications, if access to the company email servers goes down, for instance. Both Dr Mott and Mr Butler stress the importance of off-site or otherwise segregated data backups so that, in the event of a ransomware attack, all that vital information is not necessarily lost. Publishers try skinnier books to save money and emissions New beanless 'coffee' emerges but does it taste any good? Could powerful lasers unlock cheap fusion power? Cathy Miron is chief executive of eSilo, a data backup firm based in Florida. There are hundreds of such companies around the world, including Databarracks, that provide secure data backup services. Ms MironГўВҖВҷs company offers off-site, cloud-based data storage on a separate network to that of their customers; and on-site, custom-built servers as well. ГўВҖВңWe have had a 100% ransomware recovery rate thus far,ГўВҖВқ she says. For all the sophistication of contemporary computer systems, itГўВҖВҷs the simple, improvised workarounds that can save companies when a crisis hits. Mrs Miron mentions one customer who, at the time of writing, was using a Verizon mi-fi, or mobile broadband wireless router, system to access backup data because their main computer network had been completely shut down following a cyber-incident. ГўВҖВңYou should expect it, at some point in time, to be a victim of a cyber-attack,ГўВҖВқ emphasises Mr Molland. ГўВҖВңWhat do you do in the meantime? How do you keep the wheels turning?ГўВҖВқ Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Vishal Jaiswal turned a childhood hobby into a profession Vishal Jaiswal has been flying drones since he was young. Now 27, that childhood hobby has become his profession. A recent project involved mapping part of the Sundarbans, a vast area of mangrove forests where the waters of the Ganges, Brahmaputra and Meghna rivers spill into the Bay of Bengal. Covering more than 4,000 sq miles (10,360 sq km) of coastal India and Bangladesh, it is the world's biggest area of mangroves. "ItГўВҖВҷs a very dense area with mix of everything, including forests with wild animals," says Mr Jaiswal. Along with two other team members he mapped 150 sq km in three days. ГўВҖВңA trained and skilled person is needed to fly a drone in thick mangroves area," he says. "It was a difficult task. We mapped the area from deep inside the forest, travelling there on boats and roads.ГўВҖВқ It was one of many projects aimed at protecting the mangrove forest from the effects of climate change and human activities. Globally, more than half of all mangrove ecosystems are at risk of collapse by 2050, according to a recent report, external from the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). "Mangroves are threatened by deforestation, development, pollution, and dam construction, but the risk to these ecosystems is increasing due to sea-level rise and the increased frequency of severe storms associated with climate change," the report said. In India the picture is mixed. The mangroves of South India, Sri Lanka and Maldives are "critically endangered," according to the IUCN report, external. The Sundarbans are home to India's largest population of tigers Other Indian mangroves are not on that "red list". The Sundarbans are one of those mangroves not considered endangered by the (IUCN). However, Dr Sahadev Sharma, a consultant scientist to the USDA Forestry Service, says there are signs of both manmade and natural stress, which he identified during his field survey beginning of this year. "We are seeing a loss in dense mangrove cover in Sundarbans. Additionally, patches on the western coast are extremely fragmented and eroded due to shrimp farming and development," he says. But it's hard for scientists to know exactly what's happening to the Sundarbans. There's a lack of field research, partly because it's a difficult place to work. "It requires coordination with officers and ground staff, procuring field supplies in remote areas, and planning extensive logistics for field operations. "The risk of saltwater crocodiles and Bengal tigers, tides and treacherous terrain make the field work even more difficult," he says. So, scientists are turning to tech, like Mr Jaiswal's drones, to monitor the mangroves. One key bit of information needed is the height of the mangroves in relation to the sea level. The rivers flooding into the Sundarbans dump sediment, raising the ground level. But if the sea level rises faster than that soil building process, then the mangroves will be threatened. This process is monitored by installing rSETs (rod surface elevation tables) across mangrove forests. Sahadev Sharma (holding drill) has been installing monitoring posts in the Sundarbans The first part of the process is to drive steel rods into the mud, to provide a base for the measuring equipment. Then Lidar scanners are attached to the top of the rods. These use lasers to scan the ground up to 2m away from the central rod, taking hundreds of thousands of extremely accurate measurements. It's a big improvement on the previous system, which involved attaching cumbersome fibreglass arms to the rods, which were extended to take height measurements. That method would take hours to produce just 36 measurements and relied on the user placing the arms in the exact same positions as previous surveys. "Because we are using a laser, there is minimal human error and the precision of this method is much greater than the traditional pin methods," says Mr Sharma. But it has one drawback - it's more expensive than the old way. Nevertheless, the project is making progress with the help of local partners. Measuring sites are in place in the Andaman Islands, Sundarbans and Coringa and there are plans to install more in Bhitarkanika National Park, Orissa. The research is still in its early days, they have a few data sets, but are waiting for the water level to recede before they can start measuring in the Sundarbans. Mangroves are rich fishing grounds Many who live in the coastal regions that support mangrove forests rely on them for survival. In Andhra Pradesh, which has a long coastline in eastern India, fisherman Laxman Anna blamed the destruction of mangroves for poor catches. "A few years back it had become a frustrating job. Going into the creek to catch fish and coming back empty handed." ГўВҖВңImagine a day when I made just 60 cents for my entire day in the creek, as there were no fishes. Barely enough to sustain my family of five." He blamed shrimp farms for upsetting the ecosystem. But Mr Anna says communities in his area have realised the importance of preserving the mangroves. "We are planting saplings, nurturing them back to life with help of an NGO and the forest department." And that effort is paying off. ГўВҖВңThings are changing I have a smile on my face when I go to fishing now. I am able to get a good catch and make around seven to eight dollars a day, which is a good catch for my survival.ГўВҖВқ Would you let AI plan your next holiday? Follow Asia Japan's scandal-hit ruling party picks next PM Shigeru Ishiba has been elected leader of the LDP, positioning him to be Japan's next prime minister. Myanmar rebels reject embattled junta's peace offer A famed holy sweet in an unsavoury row in India Nearly 40 children in India drown during Hindu festival China is part of the US election - but only from one candidate World's longest-serving death row inmate acquitted in Japan Hong Kong jails two journalists for sedition Watch: Building collapses into river in India. Video, 00:00:25Watch: Building collapses into river in India Japan sails warship in Taiwan Strait for first time Finland to return pandas to China early due to cost Thai king signs same-sex marriage bill into law China probes Calvin Klein over Xinjiang cotton Death of Indian employee sparks debate on 'toxic work culture' Why Pakistan's female doctors don't feel safe N Korea win record third U20 Fifa Women's World Cup Can families returning after centuries solve S Korea's population crisis? Sri Lanka's new president: Political outsider makes remarkable turnaround Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Jason Brown was happy with the AI input into his holiday to Ireland When Jason Brown organised his summer holiday to Amsterdam and Ireland this year, he didnГўВҖВҷt turn to a travel book or check out Instagram. Instead the founder of recruitment company People Movers consulted ChatGPT, Open AIГўВҖВҷs generative artificial intelligence tool. He asked the AI a range of questions to help plan an itinerary to Amsterdam and Ireland, including Dublin and Galway, for his 10-day trip in July and August this year with his wife, two sons aged 20 and 16, and one of their sonГўВҖВҷs friends. ГўВҖВңIn the past I have always used sites such as TripAdvisor, but I realised I had all the knowledge at my fingertips [through AI] and it spits it out in 15 seconds.ГўВҖВқ He describes the experience as ГўВҖВңfantasticГўВҖВқ. ГўВҖВңIt provided me with a golf itinerary for Dublin, and a four-day itinerary for elsewhere in Ireland. It was amazing that it split it into morning, afternoon and evening. "For example, on the first day it suggested arriving in the morning, spending the afternoon at Trinity College and Grafton Street, and then Temple Bar on the evening.ГўВҖВқ For Amsterdam, he says it reeled off the highlights such as the Anne Frank museum, Van Gogh museum and the Jordaan neighbourhood. As the trip evolved so did his queries on ChatGPT. While he took up many of the AI suggestions, Mr Brown says he still relied on world of mouth recommendations through an online community of people who attended the same college as his, while a friend they visited in Amsterdam showed them around. ГўВҖВңThat way we experienced a few things we wouldnГўВҖВҷt have found using ChatGPT. But it gives a perfect skeleton of a trip, and gives you everything you need and want to see.ГўВҖВқ AI is pervading all areas of our life and travel is no different. As well as ChatGPT there are other generative AI tools such as GoogleГўВҖВҷs Gemini, MicrosoftГўВҖВҷs Copilot, and dedicated travel AI sites such as Trip Planner and Ask Layla. It appears to be becoming part of the travel organisation plans for some, with one in 10 Britons having used AI for travel planning, according to a survey, external by SainsburyГўВҖВҷs Bank Travel Money. One in five said they are likely to use it in the future. However, the study also suggested that travel AI still has some way to go before it can take on all your holiday plans. It found that of those who had used AI for travel planning, more than a third (38%) said that it brought up generic answers, 37% said it had missing information, while 30% said it had incorrect information. While generative AI can help deliver personalised travel itineraries and recommendations, it is only as good as the information it is trained on, and where this information is out of date, biased, erroneous, false and so on, then the AI will perpetuate the misinformation, points out Caroline Bremmer, head of travel and tourism research at analysts Euromonitor International. ГўВҖВңThe challenge is ensuring real-time information that is factually correct. There are dangers if consumers do not undertake due diligence to verify the results provided by Gen AI with other sources, including talking to people in the know, such as local residents or travel agents." Sardar Bali co-founded an AI travel planner called Just Ask Layla Sardar Bali is the co-founder at Berlin-based AI travel planner and guide Just Ask Layla. He says accuracy is a key part the service. ГўВҖВңWe have internal tools,ГўВҖВқ says Bali. ГўВҖВңAll content goes through a two-step verification process, one of which is more automated, and we have a more manual process where internal teams look at different content and researches it a bit.ГўВҖВқ But he admits some content ГўВҖВңmight slip through". ГўВҖВңFor example, it once mentioned an Eiffel Tower in Beijing; it might be tagged incorrectly. But itГўВҖВҷs getting better and better every day.ГўВҖВқ That improvement is likely to come, particularly as more services come online. Earlier this year, travel giant Expedia launched an AI service for US customers. Called Romie, it's part of the company's iPhone app. ГўВҖВңA trip can involve complex planning... thereГўВҖВҷs gazillions of options," says Shiyi Pickrell, senior vice president of data and AI at Expedia Group. She says Romie can help narrow down the choice of destination, and compare different locations. If you want a beach theme, it can compare British beach destinations to Spain and France for example, or look at which ones are family-friendly. Rebecca Crowe is cautious after some dodgy AI recommendations  However, AI doesn't always go to plan. Rebecca Crowe, 29, a freelance writer living in Liverpool, says she often taps into AI to help plan her trips, but proceeds with caution after several unhelpful experiences including a trip to Lecco, a town located next to Lake Como in Italy. "The experience wasn't great," says Crowe. "It listed all the popular stuff to do that you'd find with a standard Google search, and the itineraries didn't make a lot of logical sense. "They tried to have us in Milan in the morning and Bellagio in the afternoon, and with the train timetables and ferry schedules, this would not really be feasible. It then had us back in Milan the following day to explore more. Following this itinerary, we'd have spent more time on transport than anything else." She's also referred to AI to find gluten-free restaurants when travelling with a friend who has coeliac disease. "This pulled back results that were massively out of date and just wrong in some cases. I found myself having to manually cross-reference each suggestion to see if the place was even still open. "If I'm looking for seasonal things like ferry timetables in the shoulder season [months around the peak season], AI just doesn't seem to be up-to-date and accurate enough. Same for museums with seasonal opening times." Instead she advises people to only use it as a sounding board for broad inspiration. "You can find blogs and websites with complete guides and itineraries that are a lot more reliable and up-to-date. If you want a rough idea of things to do in a certain city, it's a great jumping-off point, but the amount of fact-checking it requires means that it doesn't really save you much time in the long run." Publishers try skinnier books to save money and emissions New beanless 'coffee' emerges but does it taste any good? More than a thousand workers are participating in the strike For the past 11 days, about 1,500 workers of South Korean technology giant Samsung Electronics have been striking work in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu, leading to major disruptions in production. The plant in Chennai city, one of Samsung's two factories in India, employs nearly 2,000 workers and produces home appliances, contributing about a third to the company's annual $12bn (ГӮВЈ9bn) revenue in India. The striking workers gather at a plot of land near the 17-year-old factory daily, demanding that Samsung recognise their newly-formed labour union - the Samsung India Labour Welfare Union (SILWU). They say that only a union can help them negotiate better wages and working hours with the management. The protest, one of the largest Samsung has seen in recent years, comes even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been courting foreign investment by positioning India as a viable alternative to China for manufacturing activities. Samsung India has released a statement saying that the welfare of its workers was its top priority. "We have initiated discussions with our workers at the Chennai plant to resolve all issues at the earliest,ГўВҖВқ it said. Hours earlier, the police had detained around 104 workers for undertaking a protest march without permission. The protesters were released in the evening. "The workers have decided to strike work indefinitely till their demands are met,ГўВҖВқ said A Soundararajan, member of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu), backed by the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Citu has backed the new union in the factory. The workers have three key demands: Samsung must recognise the new union, allow collective bargaining, and reject competing unions as about 90% of the workforce belongs to SILWU, said Mr Soundararajan. The Chennai plant contributes about $4bn to Samsung's annual $12bn India revenue Workers, earning an average of 25,000 rupees ($298; ГӮВЈ226) a month, are demanding staggered raises totalling a 50% increase over the next three years, according to Citu. Citu also alleged that workers at the plant were being "pressurised to finish each product - like a refrigerator, washing machine, or TV - within 10-15 seconds", work non-stop for four to five hours at a stretch, and do their jobs in unsafe conditions. ГўВҖВңWe categorically deny that workers are made to work for four hours at a stretch. All workers get suitable breaks in between," Samsung India said in an official statement. "Also, employees work on their given task of the manufacturing process as products are passed through the conveyor line. They are not required to 'finish' a product in such a time frame, which is not realistic. We reiterate that we are in compliance with all laws and regulations," the statement added. Mr Soundararajan also alleged that workers were pressurised by the management to leave the new union and that their families were threatened as well. Samsung India said the firm "categorically denies all the allegations and that it maintains absolute compliance with all the existing labour laws". Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu's Labour Welfare Minister CV Ganesan said he had assured union officials that talks were under way to resolve their issues. "We will fulfil the demands of the workers," he said. Sijo*, a protester, said that he arrives at the protest site daily at 08:00 IST (02:30 GMT) and stays until 17:00, joining hundreds of workers in their blue Samsung India uniforms. The union arranges for lunch and water for the protesters, while a makeshift cloth tent protects them from the elements. There are no washroom facilities, so the workers use the outdoors. "Since the factory was set up, employees have been working without complaints or a union. But things have been getting bad over the past couple of years, and now, we need the support of a union," Sijo said. He added that his pay doesn't keep pace with the cost of living and that this has put a strain of his family's finances. Up until 2020, the Samsung Group was known for not allowing unions to represent its workers. But things changed after the company came under intense public scrutiny after its chairman was prosecuted for market manipulation and bribery. In July, Samsung workers in South Korea went on strike to demand more leaves and better pay Millions of Indian workers join trade unions - often backed by leftist parties - who use their political clout to enforce labour laws and negotiate better conditions. "Foreign companies set up in India but resist following local laws on workers' rights to association and collective bargaining," alleged Mr Soundararajan. Many prominent multinational companies, including Apple and Amazon, have set up factories in India. But labour rights activists allege that many of them underpay and overwork their Indian employees and collude with state governments to clamp down on workers' rights. Shyam Sundar, a labour economist, said multinational corporations use various "human resource strategies" to prevent workers from forming unions in developing countries like India. For one, they fiercely oppose workers joining external, politically-backed unions and encourage them to form "worker-led" internal ones. "This ensures that the management has some control over the union's activities," Mr Sundar said. Mr Soundararajan alleged that management at the Chennai plant had also approached workers with this solution, which they refused. A source in Samsung India told the BBC that the organisation "fully supports unions but not ones backed by a third-party". Later the company said in an official statement that it "is ready to communicate with the work council comprised of a majority of employees on matters including wages, benefits and working conditions". Mr Sundar said firms also hire young, unskilled workers, especially from rural areas, by attracting them with a good starting salary. "These 'trainees' are promised to be made permanent employees after a couple of months, but this doesn't happen. The salaries too stay stagnant or have very low increments." The rapid growth of "flexible workers" - employees hired on contract - has become a key strategy of multinational corporations to stop unionising by ensuring a pliant workforce, he added. According to the latest government statistics, every two in five workers employed in factories, external in India in 2022 were contractual labourers, making up about 40% of the workforce in industrial establishments. "Companies use the threat of re-location or non-expansion to discourage state governments from enforcing labour laws," Mr Sundar said. "But workers can leverage global labour unions to pressure companies to abide by international labour laws," he added. *Name changed to protect the worker's identity This story has been updated with official statements from Samsung India With inputs from Vijayanand Arumugam from BBC Tamil and Nikhil Inamdar from BBC News  Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. How does beanless coffee taste? Zoe Corbyn has been finding out I am in a high-end coffee shop in a tech-heavy area of San Francisco, staring suspiciously into a cup of espresso. This is no conventional coffee: it is made without using a single coffee bean. It comes from Atomo, one of a band of alt-coffee start-ups hoping to revolutionise the world of brewed coffee. ГўВҖВңWe take great offence when someone says that we're a coffee substitute,ГўВҖВқ says Andy Kleitsch, the chief executive of Seattle based start-up Atomo, from whose pure, beanless ground product my espresso has been made. Traditional coffee substitutes have a reputation for not tasting much like coffee and are usually caffeine-free. However, the newcomers intend to replicate one of the worldГўВҖВҷs most popular beverages from taste, to caffeine punch, to drinking experience ГўВҖВ“ and the first of this nascent industryГўВҖВҷs beanless concoctions have begun to appear. Atomo's ingredients include date seeds, sunflower seed extract and pea protein They say there's a strong environmental argument for their beanless brews. According to the World Wide Fund for Nature, external, coffee cultivation is currently the sixth largest cause of deforestation. That impact is expected to widen as demand increases: consumption is fast rising in traditional tea drinking countries like India and China. Meanwhile, climate change is pushing plantations to higher altitudes to escape the heat. So, beanless coffee is potentially a less environmentally damaging alternative. The newcomers also argue that, if scaled up, beanless coffee could be cheaper than its conventional competition. And, with coffee prices reaching record levels, external on the international markets this year, that point is timely. Also, in December, a new EU regulation, external is set to come into effect that outlaws the sale of products, coffee included, that canГўВҖВҷt prove they are not linked to deforestation. ГўВҖВңA lot of big coffee companies are watching this field,ГўВҖВқ says Chahan Yeretzian, a professor of analytical chemistry, who heads the Coffee Excellence Centre at the Zurich University of Applied Sciences in Switzerland. Niels Haak, director of sustainable coffee partnerships at Conservation International, an environmental non-profit, welcomes the innovative approaches to tackling coffeeГўВҖВҷs deforestation problem, but he also doubts if beanless coffee will be able to make much dent. Coffee growing provides livelihoods and income to many smallholder farming families globally, he further notes. The conundrum is if they move away from growing coffee, they will turn to alternative crops or land uses. In some countries there is even a risk they turn to illicit activities such as growing coca ГўВҖВ“ the plant cocaine derives from ГўВҖВ“ which has similar deforestation issues. ГўВҖВңThere are no silver bullets,ГўВҖВқ he says. He notes there is work ongoing ГўВҖВ“ from coffee certification schemes, to efforts aimed at strengthening so-called shade coffee farming where coffee is grown under a canopy of other trees ГўВҖВ“ to make coffee growing more sustainable and support communities. ГўВҖВң[The coffee sector] is on a journey to transform,ГўВҖВқ he says. Yet the beanless companies counter that transformation isnГўВҖВҷt wide enough or quick enough. Coffee is causing massive deforestation and coffee farmers live in poverty. If alt-coffee could offset even just the extra projected coffee demand it would be a win for the planet that wouldnГўВҖВҷt put anyone out of business. And, as the climate changes, there are plenty of crops beyond illicit ones that coffee farmers could switch to that donГўВҖВҷt require slashing more forest. Andy Kleitsch hopes to grab a slice of the giant coffee market Atomo, which launched in 2019, is currently sold in more than 70 coffee shops in the US. Coffee shop chain Bluestone Lane added it to the menu at all its locations in early August, including in San Francisco. Since June, Atomo has also been selling through its website a blend of beanless and conventional coffee intended for home brewing that I have also purchased to try. It currently costs slightly more than premium conventional coffee. For example, to make my espresso with Atomo adds on 50 cents (38p). AtomoГўВҖВҷs ingredients arenГўВҖВҷt particularly high tech: date seeds, ramГғВіn seeds, sunflower seed extract, fructose, pea protein, millet, lemon, guava, fenugreek seeds, caffeine and baking soda. Things begin with waste date seeds or pits. Rock hard, they are granulated then infused with a secret marinade of ingredients from the list above, before being roasted to create new flavours, aromas and compounds. Further ingredients then finish things off. AtomoГўВҖВҷs caffeine is sourced from green tea decaffeination, though synthetically-made caffeine is also used to provide beanless coffeeГўВҖВҷs kick. Atomo operates a facility in southern California, where the date pits are cleaned and washed, and a second facility in Seattle where the manufacturing takes place. Current capacity is four million pounds a year, which Mr Kleitsch describes as a ГўВҖВңrounding errorГўВҖВқ in the world of coffee production: Starbucks buys about 800 million. As for trying Atomo, both the coffee shop espresso and the brew-at-home version tasted close enough to good coffee for me. Perhaps luckily for these companies, coffee can have many different undertones. Dutch start-up Northern Wonder hopes to find a market with its beanless coffee Others have different ingredients and methods. Over the past year the bean-free coffee products of Dutch start-up Northern Wonder, founded in 2021, has secured space on supermarket shelves in the Netherlands and Switzerland. Roasted and ground lupin, chickpea, malted barley, and chicory are amongst the major ingredients the company works with, along with an undisclosed natural flavouring. Though notes David Klingen, the companyГўВҖВҷs boss, operations are still in the research and development phase. Ingredients may change as it perfects its brew. Other companies on the scene include Singapore-based Prefer and San Francisco's Minus. And, though it is further from market, also being pursued is the tantalising possibility of lab-grown or cultured coffee. In the same way animal cells can be cultivated in a bioreactor and harvested to produce meat cell products ГўВҖВ“ so cells extracted from coffee plants could be similarly grown, then fermented and roasted to produce a brew. Proof of concept was demonstrated in 2021, external by Finnish government researchers, who are now trying to help accelerate commercialisation, external. Cell-based coffee start-ups include Swiss-based Foodbrewer, US-based California Cultured, and Singapore-based Another. The approach may provide a closer match to coffee than surrogates like Atomo or Northern Wonder, but regulatory approval for such novel food takes time and money. There are also doubts the technology will be able to scale economically. David Klingen says his company is still developing its beanless brew Could powerful lasers unlock cheap fusion power? Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Crash dummies and robot arms: How airline seats are tested Meanwhile, challenges for the beanless firms remain. The house-filling aroma that real coffee generates is still elusive for them. And bean-free coffee doesnГўВҖВҷt provide emotional connections to faraway places ГўВҖВ“ Colombia, Ethiopia, Indonesia ГўВҖВ“ the way real coffee can. AtomoГўВҖВҷs main business hurdle now is finding large coffee partners who want to offer their consumers a new choice, while Northern WonderГўВҖВҷs is finding the right investors. ГўВҖВңPeople arenГўВҖВҷt completely sure how big the category will be and when,ГўВҖВқ says Mr Klingen. I donГўВҖВҷt think IГўВҖВҷll be switching ГўВҖВ“ I canГўВҖВҷt help but like that real coffee is grown by people somewhere ГўВҖВ“ but beanless coffee certainly left me thinking I should investigate the sustainability and ethics of my conventional brew. Georgia and John McGinty were seriously injured in an Uber crash in 2022 A couple who were left with life-changing injuries after their Uber crashed have been told they cannot sue the company because of the terms they accepted when using the app. Georgia and John McGinty, from New Jersey, in the US, are bound by a clause saying they could not take the case to a jury in a court of law. State judges ruled they had clicked a "confirm" button on the app on more than one occasion when asked if they agreed with Uber's terms of use. The McGintys argue they had not understood they were forfeiting their right to sue the company. They told the BBC the most recent time the terms were agreed to was when their daughter, then 12, had accepted them prior to ordering a pizza on Uber Eats. "How would I ever remotely think that my ability to protect my constitutional rights to a trial would be waived by me ordering food?" said Mrs McGinty. Uber told BBC News: "Our Terms of Use are clear that these types of claims should be resolved in arbitration. ItГўВҖВҷs important to highlight that the court concluded the plaintiff herself, not her daughter, agreed to Uber's Terms of Use on multiple occasions." Arbitration means the dispute is settled through a third party rather than in court - in this case a lawyer appointed by Uber. Legal experts say it tends to result in smaller financial settlements. The case has parallels with Disney's attempt to avoid being sued over a death at Disney World - in its case over the terms of a Disney+ membership - before the company changed its mind. In March 2022, Georgia and John McGinty were riding in an Uber in New Jersey when it crashed, and they suffered extensive injuries. Mrs McGinty's injuries included spine fractures and traumatic injuries to her abdominal wall. "I was in the critical care unit for a week," she told the BBC. "I had a horrible post-operative infection and almost died during this time, I wasn't able to care for my child who was suffering from unrelated injury," she said. John fractured his sternum and sustained injuries to his hand. "I shattered my wrist, broke my hand, and I have a steel rod with about nine pins in it. I don't have full function of my left hand," he said. "I am in pain every day." He added that they "accumulated a tremendous amount of medical debt" and still need further medical treatment in the future, including a possible third operation for Georgia. A photo of the Uber car in the scrapyard after the crash The couple attempted to sue Uber over the crash, citing the seventh amendment of the US Constitution, which grants people the right to a trial by jury. But the tech firm argued that the couple could not take the case in front of a jury because of a clause in Uber's US Terms of Use., external New Jersey's Supreme Court agreed. "We hold that the arbitration provision contained in the agreement under review, which Georgia or her minor daughter, while using her cell phone agreed to, is valid and enforceable," its judgement says. The judgment found the child had clicked the button to say she was 18 despite not being. Referring to her daughter's use of Uber Eats, Mrs McGinty says she does not know how it can be right that she is considered to have "authorised my child to waive our rights to go to a trial if we're injured in a car accident."  "I don't know how anybody makes that leap," she said. Arbitration clauses are "very common," especially when dealing with large corporations, said Ted Spaulding, a personal injury lawyer based in the state of Georgia. An arbitrator is "most often a lawyer who does this for a living," he said, who can "act like a judge and a jury". They decide on an outcome after weighing up arguments from both sides, and their fee is often split between both parties. In the US, the enforceability of arbitration clauses differs state by state. In its case, Disney used the arbitration clause in their terms to argue that a man whose wife died at Disney World could not sue them in a court of law. Jeffrey Piccolo filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Disney after his wife, Dr Kanokporn Tangsuan, died following an allergic reaction at a restaurant, run by a third party, at Disney World Florida in 2023. Disney said Mr Piccolo had waived his right to a jury trial when he signed up to a free trial of Disney+ in 2019. Disney later withdrew its claim to arbitration and opted to proceed with a jury trial after media coverage of the lawsuit. "We believe this situation warrants a sensitive approach to expedite a resolution for the family who have experienced such a painful loss," Disney executive Josh D'Amaro told the BBC in a statement in August. Mr Spaulding says: "The law understandably says, 'Look, you have the duty to know what you're signing'," referring to the terms and conditions people often accept when using a product or a service. However, he says "the scope should be within the transaction that you're agreeing to". Georgia McGinty during her recovery Georgia and John McGinty say the Uber case has been "absolutely devastating" to their family. Georgia says their daughter, now 14, "suffered a lot of trauma as a result". She had a separate physical health issue which she was going through at the time, which her parents found difficult to help with while going through their own injuries. "Years of her life with her parents... were taken away," she says. "Luckily, she's a fighter, like her parents are," says John. "We are inadvertently teaching her adversity and strength and family and prayer and resilience." Uber told BBC News: "The court concluded that on multiple occasions the plaintiff herself agreed to Uber's Terms of Use, including the arbitration agreement." The company added: "We are dedicated to road safety." Disney drops bid to stop allergy death lawsuit over Disney+ terms Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. A nature reserve in the Philippines, which has been lauded by top climate activists and film stars, has come under a concerted disinformation attack on social media as it fights to continue its work, a BBC investigation has found. A network of nearly 100 fake Facebook accounts and pages were found to be spreading misleading claims about the Masungi Georeserve and its keepers. Most were taken down after the BBC asked Meta, FacebookГўВҖВҷs parent company, about these accounts. Despite gaining international recognition for its reforestation efforts in the fight against climate change, the reserve is under pressure from illegal loggers, land grabbers, and quarrying companies. A spokesperson for the reserve said it was being ГўВҖВңganged up onГўВҖВқ by local politicians, businesses and some officials in government. The environment department, which has proposed ending a reforesting contract with the reserve, denied the claim. Masungi Georeserve is known for its limestone formations, estimated to be around 60 million years old It is not clear who controlled the network, but evidence seen by the BBC suggests that a public relations consultant who states on his social media profile that he has expertise in ГўВҖВңreputation managementГўВҖВқ was linked to pages involved in the campaign. Located east of Manila, the Masungi reserve is a popular eco-tourism destination, known for its lush rainforest and gravity-defying limestone formations. Supporters include climate activist Greta Thunberg and Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio. The reserve has been trying to fend off illegal business activities for years, but this particular smear campaign is understood to have started in recent months. ГўВҖВңWeГўВҖВҷve seen misleading information, trying to manufacture dissent against work that we do as environment defenders,ГўВҖВқ says Billie Dumaliang from the Masungi Georeserve Foundation. These online attacks have appeared against a backdrop of physical violence against people involved in protecting the environment in the Philippines. Two forest rangers who work for the Masungi Georeserve were shot and wounded in 2021. And campaigning group Global Witness, external says the Philippines ranks as the most dangerous place in Asia for environmental defenders, with 298 people killed since 2012. ГўВҖВқOnline propaganda can be quite important in creating a fear factor for the people who work in Masungi,ГўВҖВқ says Regine Cabato, a Filipino journalist with experience covering disinformation. Rangers working for the Masungi Georeserve have, in the past, been attacked and shot at By investigating this propaganda, BBC Verify identified a pattern of fake accounts and pages seemingly working together as part of the smear campaign. Suspicious features included profile pictures showing K-pop stars, cats and models, rather than real people. Many of these accounts were created within hours of each other, and had very few friends. But it was the content that they posted which made them stand out the most: in the last few months, they repeatedly posted content critical of the Masungi Georeserve Foundation. ГўВҖВңSuddenly the owners are making a lot of money,ГўВҖВқ posted one user, questioning the Masungi GeoreserveГўВҖВҷs entire operation. ГўВҖВңThis protected area is owned by the people. DonГўВҖВҷt be arrogant!ГўВҖВқ wrote another, along with an image telling the reserve to ГўВҖВңstop masquerading as a protector of natureГўВҖВқ. ГўВҖВңThis is something weГўВҖВҷve seen play out during elections against certain political targets, and sometimes itГўВҖВҷs something weГўВҖВҷve also seen deployed against private individuals,ГўВҖВқ says Ms Cabato. ГўВҖВңThere is a lot of power and a lot of money that goes into turning the wheels of this machine.ГўВҖВқ The woman taking on trolls on their own turf 'Politicians hire me to spread fake stories' The campaign appears to have begun this year, around the time the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) proposed scrapping the 2017 contract that handed the Masungi Georeserve Foundation control over the vast majority of the land it holds - some 2,700 hectares - for reforestation purposes. The move was criticised by a number of international celebrities, including Filipino actress and singer Nadine Lustre, Greta Thunberg and Leonardo DiCaprio - who, in an Instagram post, called on the Philippine president to ГўВҖВңprotect MasungiГўВҖВқ. Allow Instagram content? This article contains content provided by Instagram. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read MetaГўВҖВҷs Instagram cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ГўВҖВҳaccept and continueГўВҖВҷ. When news outlets posted on Facebook about celebrity calls to ГўВҖВң#SaveMasungiГўВҖВқ, their posts drew the attention of the small army of fake accounts identified by the BBC. Under those posts, they left comments defending the environment departmentГўВҖВҷs proposal and attacking celebrities like DiCaprio over their intervention. ГўВҖВңDonГўВҖВҷt be a loser Leonardo,ГўВҖВқ wrote one user. ГўВҖВңThe DENR saw sketchy behaviour a long time ago,ГўВҖВқ posted another. In addition, several of these accounts went on to share content from the DENRГўВҖВҷs own social media accounts, or from pages supportive of the departmentГўВҖВҷs work. The DENR denies having any links to these accounts and pages. But the department plays a dual role in the Philippines, which critics say is contradictory: it issues mining and quarrying permits, while also employing hundreds of forest rangers to protect the Sierra Madre, the countryГўВҖВҷs longest mountain range. Podcast: An (online) storm in a Philippine rainforest The BBC asked Meta about the accounts that seemed to be operating as an organised network, and the company confirmed that a cluster of accounts was engaging in inauthentic activity. It took down most of the accounts and pages identified as part of the BBC investigation, saying they ГўВҖВңengaged in deceptive, spammy activity, including amplifying content using fake accounts to make it appear more popular than it wasГўВҖВқ. But it stopped short of linking this network to any third party. ГўВҖВңIt seems like weГўВҖВҷre being ganged up on by local politicians together with some people from the DENR, together with their cohorts in these destructive industries,ГўВҖВқ says Ms Dumaliang from the Masungi Geoserve Foundation. The environment department denies this claim. In a statement, the DENR told the BBC it had ГўВҖВңno involvement in any social media campaign, activity, or other online tactics aimed at influencing public opinion in a negative mannerГўВҖВқ. It also described its communication efforts as transparent, accurate and fair. While we do not know who ultimately controlled the network of accounts and pages, the BBC found evidence linking one individual to the campaign. Ben Pablo used this photo on his Facebook account, which has recently been deleted On social media, Ben Pablo described himself as a public relations consultant who specialised in ГўВҖВңreputation managementГўВҖВқ and ГўВҖВңsocial media marketingГўВҖВқ. But he placed ads on behalf of pages that were part of the campaign, according to MetaГўВҖВҷs ad library, which lists all adverts placed on Facebook. Mr Pablo did not respond to the BBCГўВҖВҷs repeated requests for comment. But since we first approached him, several of the pages that we believe he was linked to have been deleted, along with Mr PabloГўВҖВҷs own social media accounts. In recent months, Mr Pablo has also bought Facebook adverts promoting Senator Imee Marcos, the sister of the current president, Ferdinand Marcos Jr. Although there is no evidence linking her to this campaign, the BBC asked the senatorГўВҖВҷs team whether she had ever employed Mr Pablo, but did not get a response. Whether Mr Pablo was acting alone remains unclear. But, despite the impact that online disinformation may have on the lives of those looking after Masungi, Billie Dumaliang seems undeterred. ГўВҖВңEvery time we see the landscape, the sunset unobstructed, we are reminded of the reason why weГўВҖВҷre doing this: it is to preserve this special place.ГўВҖВқ Fighting to save what's left of a vital rainforest Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. This year's game will be the first to feature an in-depth women's career mode, including players like Barcelona star Aitana BonmatГғВӯ  ГўВҖВңMost musicians, one of our dreams, one our goals ГўВҖВ“ itГўВҖВҷs not the Grammys, itГўВҖВҷs not the Oscars ГўВҖВ“ itГўВҖВҷs to get a song on Fifa, man.ГўВҖВқ That's Femi Koleoso, from Ezra Collective, on why getting on Fifa - now known as EA FC - is such a big deal. Each year, around a hundred songs get selected for the soundtrack of the world's favourite football video game. But how do they get chosen from the countless acts desperate to make their name on it? "It's a brutal question to answer," EA's president of music, Steve Schnur, told me, as he gave the BBC a rare peek behind the curtain of how the game studio makes its decisions. "We go through thousands and thousands of songs," he says "At the very beginning, I was flying around like a madman, looking everywhere for the next great thing. "Now, humbly speaking, everybody wants to be in EA FC, so people come to us." But of course, the process is not really about the acts - but the gamer. "I can't always base it on who we like or who we have history with," Mr Schnur said. "Ultimately, my boss is the player, the person that bought the copy of the game, sometimes with their parents' money."  He told me the tune has to "fit a tone", though there is no specific genre. "Even if a song doesn't end up in the game, there's many songs that you probably hear on Radio 1 where you go, that's an EA FC band, or that's an EA FC song," he told me. "They can be popular - it can be Skepta, it can be Dua Lipa - but we also want to make sure it's that band from York that you haven't heard of yet." But, if you're that unheard of band, how does EA even find out that you exist? Simply put, a lot of digging. "There's a band from Yorkshire, they're 15 and 16 years old, that I came across online recently, and I reached out to them and said I'm Steve Schnur from EA Sports FC," he said. "They sent me these Instagram messages back immediately, saying, 'is this a joke?'" Exciting for the band - which Mr Schnur would not name - but he says it's a thrill for him too. "Nothing's better than reaching out to that band and literally saying, out of the blue, 'hey, I want to put you in the game this year'," he said. For the bands, it can be transformative - for acts including Kasabian and Catfish and the Bottlemen, getting exposure on Fifa helped them go on to become household names. Kasabian - pictured here in 2004 - found chart success after their song LSF formed part of the Fifa 2004 soundtrack One of the tracks on this year's game is from British act, Good Neighbours, comprised of Oli Fox and Scott Verill. They may be a long way from a Kasabian-style stadium tour - but they've got a song in EA FC 25. "It's unreal," Scott told me. "I've played the game since I was a kid, and I've always discovered bands through playing it." The connection with the game extends to their fans too. "Ever since we've started posting music online, all our fans have always been like: 'get this on EA FC'," he said. Where bands once might have hoped someone from a record label would unexpectedly turn up, now there is hype around the possible appearance of a gaming industry representative. "Someone teased us with a rumour - someone from EA is going to be at your gig tonight - it was crazy... and then we just had a sick gig, I guess," Scott said. Good Neighbours' Oli (left) and Scott (right) have yet to put out their first album But that's not the only link between Good Neighbours, football and EA FC. Morgan Fox, Oli's brother, plays professional football for QPR - and has featured in Fifa since his debut for Charlton in 2013. "He's been on it for some time, and it's been a real frustration of mine," he joked. "Literally since we were kids we've played it together in a horrible rivalry growing up, and then only the penny dropped maybe about 10 years ago that we could possibly exist on the same game. "Our parents would finally be proud of us, and all those evenings wasted in our childhood playing FIFA, and when we finally ticked it off, we got a nice message from mum and dad saying that they're very proud." Who needs a Grammy? Oli's brother Morgan celebrating after scoring for Charlton in 2015 Assassin's Creed Shadows release date delayed to 2025 Sony reveals much more expensive and powerful PlayStation 5 Pro Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Tesla, run by Elon Musk, would be welcome to invest in the UK, the prime minister has said. Sir Keir Starmer said he didnГўВҖВҷt want to be misunderstood after the BBC reported that the tech tycoon had not been invited to the UKГўВҖВҷs International Investment Summit due to his social media posts during last monthГўВҖВҷs riots. ГўВҖВңObviously, I encourage investment from anywhere,ГўВҖВқ he told the BBC. He added: "Good investment into the UK is what I'm very, very keen to promote." Sir Keir made his comments while speaking to journalists on his recent visit to New York, where he addressed the United Nations and met with Donald Trump and US business leaders. "Every time I'm abroad, every time on an international trip, we do these investment breakfasts, because I'm absolutely determined to get the investment that we needed into the economy. "And I do think we've got a real opportunity with a new chapter now," he said. The summit next month is the key moment that the prime minister hopes will drive tens of billions of pounds in inward funding for business from the worldГўВҖВҷs biggest investors. However, he took a starring role in November's artificial intelligence (AI) Summit, including a fireside chat with then-prime minister Rishi Sunak. Mr Musk lashed out on social media after reports that he had not been invited to the UK government's International Investment Summit. The MoD stepped in to save Coherent from closure More than 100 jobs have been saved at a microchip-making factory after the government stepped in to buy the closure-threatened plant. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has paid ГӮВЈ20m for the former Coherent facility at Newton Aycliffe, County Durham. Coherent, which also makes microchips used by the military, had considered closure after losing a big contract with iPhone maker Apple. Defence Secretary John Healey said: "We simply canГўВҖВҷt afford as a country to let this company get into the wrong hands or to go under." During a visit of the site on Friday, he said the plant does something "no-one else in the UK does". Mr Healey defended the move to bail out the factory, which will be renamed Octric Semiconductors UK, even though the former owner could be seen as failing. Defence Secretary John Healey visited the Coherent site in Newton Aycliffe "This is exactly what an active government should do," he said. "It safeguards national security, it boosts British jobs, and I want to make sure that we grow the company and not just save it." The purchase by the MoD is the latest chapter in a chequered history for the giant manufacturing facility. It was opened by the Japanese company Fujitsu in 1991, creating 600 jobs and promising many hundreds more. However, the plant was closed in 1998 with the loss of the entire workforce. The company had struggled to keep up with advances in microchip technology. Since then it has been through multiple ownerships. Follow BBC North East on X, external, Facebook, external, Nextdoor and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. Governments make big bets on the computer chip industry New government commits to saving train factory MoD Third man charged in murder probe after death of 26-year-old dad Darlington town centre a council 'priority' despite shock Binns closure Cleveland Police release pictures of three men wanted over Hartlepool disorder Geek Retreat branch wins permission to expand Petition launched to return rapid response contract to 'sanctuary' St Teresa's Darlington town centre footfall down nearly every month since free parking scrapped Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Telecoms firm Sure plans to introduce 5G wireless broadband in the Channel Islands in about 18 months. It comes after the States of Guernsey agreed to suspend competition law to allow Sure to buy rival Airtel. Sure's CEO Alasdair Beak said the introduction of 5G, which is designed to offer faster wireless communications than 4G, would mean "up to ГӮВЈ48m" of investment in Guernsey and Jersey. "I think it's great news for Jersey and Guernsey, we can now really move forward and transform telecommunications," he said. The deal meant Sure could "move forward and complete the transaction in the coming weeks", said Mr Beak. It removes Airtel as a competitor to Sure and JT in the islands. Sure has also committed to launching another mobile network in partnership with the Channel Islands Co-Operative. Follow BBC Guernsey on X (formerly Twitter), external and Facebook, external. Follow BBC Jersey on X (formerly Twitter), external and Facebook, external. Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk, external. States votes to suspend competition law Sure to acquire Airtel-Vodafone in Channel Islands Sure Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. The collection was initially due to be released on 24 July Guernsey Post has called off the planned release of cryptocurrency stamps after concerns were raised by the financial regulator. It said the stamps did not meet the requirements of the Lending, Credit and Finance (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law 2022. The postal service said the Guernsey Financial Services Commission considered the collection to be a virtual asset. Featuring Billy and Nanny the golden Guernsey goats, the collection was initially due to be released on 24 July. Guernsey Post said the stamps would instead be launched as a miniature sheet containing two traditional postage stamps. Boley Smillie, chief executive of Guernsey Post said: "Our proposed crypto stamps have been considered to be a virtual asset by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and that means they would be unlikely to licence Guernsey Post for the sale of this type of product. "Unfortunately, this opinion was not consistent with the legal advice that we received on the matter, but we have chosen to launch the Guernsey goat stamps in a different way." Follow BBC Guernsey on X (formerly Twitter), external and Facebook, external. Guernsey Post to launch crypto stamps Guernsey Post Warning issued for strong winds after brief respite from downpours Chappell Roan drops out of All Things Go music festival Fears lack of "clear timeline" for ferry tender will damage tourism Broken machine leaves private patients without cataracts care Aurigny CEO defends Guernsey's airline saying it's faring better than others Safeguarding and costs concerns for next year's Island Games Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow Guernsey New universal charges for emergency treatment Patients having cancer treatment will be exempt from charges and children will still pay a ГӮВЈ25 fee. Guernsey drag queen warms up crowd for Chappell Roan. BBC Radio Guernsey. Audio, 00:03:02Guernsey drag queen warms up crowd for Chappell Roan BBC Radio Guernsey Guernsey lucky to have Aurigny - aviation expert Old age should not be a barrier to work - deputy Guernsey Post plan for crypto stamps scrapped Islands to get 5G broadband 'in about 18 months' Firm steps in to clear fly-tipping at boxing club Calls made to nominate charities for King's Awards States votes to suspend competition law Deputies expect tax rise proposals in budget Arrests after vehicles targeted on driveways Labour genuinely interested in Guernsey - deputy Tonight, Low Low of 12ГӮВ° Saturday 28 September,SatГӮВ 28th High of 15ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Sunday 29 September,SunГӮВ 29th High of 15ГӮВ° Low of 14ГӮВ° Monday 30 September,MonГӮВ 30th High of 17ГӮВ° Low of 12ГӮВ° Tuesday 1 October,TueГӮВ 1st High of 16ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Instagram TikTok Facebook X Warning issued for strong winds after brief respite from downpours Chappell Roan drops out of All Things Go music festival Fears lack of "clear timeline" for ferry tender will damage tourism Broken machine leaves private patients without cataracts care Aurigny CEO defends Guernsey's airline saying it's faring better than others Safeguarding and costs concerns for next year's Island Games Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. It's the weekly news quiz - how closely have you been paying attention to what's been going on in the world over the past seven days? Some mobile users may experience difficulties. If you cannot see the quiz, try this link, external. Try last week's quiz or have a go at something from the archives. Compiled by Ben Fell What information do we collect from this quiz? Privacy notice. Sign up for our morning newsletter and get BBC News in your inbox. The land was bought by Blackstone earlier this year A ГӮВЈ10bn investment in a new artificial intelligence data centre will create about 4,000 jobs, the government has said. The site in Cambois, near Blyth, Northumberland, will become one of Europe's biggest AI data centres. The land was bought by private equity giant Blackstone earlier this year, after the collapse of Britishvolt which had planned to build an electric car battery factory on the site. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said the investment showed that the UK was "open for business". Sir Keir said Blackstone's investment was a "huge vote of confidence in the UK" and proved Britain was back as a "major player on the global stage". The plan for the data centre was first revealed in April, before Sir Keir's election. Northumberland County Council official Richard Wearmouth said at the time the project would put north-east England "at the heart of the AI revolution". About 1,200 jobs would be dedicated to the project's construction, the government said. The council also previously said the data centre would create about 2,700 related jobs. Britishvolt's plans for a car factory had been slated to create about 8,000 jobs. Construction on the site is expected to start next year, the government said. Blackstone head Jon Gray said the firm was "committed to Britain". The firm also confirmed it would put ГӮВЈ110m into a fund for skills training and transport infrastructure for the region. Northumberland County Council leader Glen Sanderson said the investment was a "gamechanger" for the region and welcomed the prime minister throwing "his full support" behind it. "Just yesterday, I wrote to the prime minister inviting him to visit the site at Cambois to see for himself its enormous potential," he said. "I look forward to welcoming him to Northumberland and to discussing with him how further government investment in our infrastructure can unlock even more economic growth." Additional reporting by PA Media. Follow BBC North East on X, external, Facebook, external, Nextdoor, external and Instagram, external. Council paves way for data centre on Britishvolt site Investment firm buys former Britishvolt site  Northumberland County Council Coastguard called out after reports of seven chest deep in water on Holy Island Pilgrims' Way Warning of air travel 'mayhem' on these dates in October with strikes and air traffic control problems expected Beautiful bungalow next to historic County Durham Abbey up for sale for ГӮВЈ150k Three North East firms named and shamed by HMRC for almost ГӮВЈ108k of unpaid tax Dreamcoat Stars Christmas is coming to the Phoenix Theatre in Blyth 9 amazing retro photos of classic South Tyneside pubs from Hebburn's past Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow Tyne Activists jailed for throwing soup on Sunflowers Just Stop Oil activists Phoebe Plummer and Anna Holland threw tomato soup over Van's Gogh's piece. Sycamore Gap sapling gifted in memory of boy with cancer Dozens of endangered crayfish found dead Festival celebrates 'forgotten' coastal village Transplant lets girl be 'normal five-year-old' Two die and two injured as car hits wall   Man sentenced for abusing partner in row over baby More than 4,000 pharmacy hours lost to closures ГӮВЈ10bn investment in AI data centre confirmed Railway line accessibility 'in the dark ages' Man admits barber shop petrol attack School told to change admissions procedure 'It's not as simple as saying we're accessible' Video, 00:02:00'It's not as simple as saying we're accessible' Man pops the question at Great North Run finish line. Video, 00:01:16Man pops the question at Great North Run finish line 'Absolutely sickening': Mum reacts to early release of son's killer. Video, 00:01:45'Absolutely sickening': Mum reacts to early release of son's killer Medieval knight in training for Great North Run. Video, 00:01:22Medieval knight in training for Great North Run Rapper represents North East at Reading & Leeds. Video, 00:02:03Rapper represents North East at Reading & Leeds Tonight, Low Low of 4ГӮВ° Saturday 28 September,SatГӮВ 28th High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 5ГӮВ° Sunday 29 September,SunГӮВ 29th High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Monday 30 September,MonГӮВ 30th High of 14ГӮВ° Low of 10ГӮВ° Tuesday 1 October,TueГӮВ 1st High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 8ГӮВ° Newcastle CEO Eales to step down after cancer diagnosis Five County Championship games abandoned on day two County Championship 2024 team of the season as chosen by you Newcastle won't finish bottom - Diamond Wimbledon-Newcastle cup tie moved to St James' after flooding Sycamore Gap saplings to become 'trees of hope' BBC Radio Newcastle. Audio, 00:05:48Sycamore Gap saplings to become 'trees of hope' BBC Radio Newcastle Tyne Valley line accessibility 'in the dark ages' BBC Radio Newcastle. Audio, 00:05:02Tyne Valley line accessibility 'in the dark ages' BBC Radio Newcastle Kielder Observatory explains rare 'two moons' spectacle. BBC Radio Newcastle. Audio, 00:04:31Kielder Observatory explains rare 'two moons' spectacle BBC Radio Newcastle Newcastle United CEO to step down after cancer diagnosis. Audio, 00:03:13Newcastle United CEO to step down after cancer diagnosis BBC Radio Newcastle Weather warning issued for the North East. Audio, 00:01:05Weather warning issued for the North East BBC Radio Newcastle Instagram TikTok Facebook X Coastguard called out after reports of seven chest deep in water on Holy Island Pilgrims' Way Warning of air travel 'mayhem' on these dates in October with strikes and air traffic control problems expected Beautiful bungalow next to historic County Durham Abbey up for sale for ГӮВЈ150k Three North East firms named and shamed by HMRC for almost ГӮВЈ108k of unpaid tax Dreamcoat Stars Christmas is coming to the Phoenix Theatre in Blyth 9 amazing retro photos of classic South Tyneside pubs from Hebburn's past Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. A council hopes the action it has taken will help its staff and councillors  A motion on fighting intimidation has been approved by a local authority after a councillor spoke of the "horrendous abuse" he had received. East Suffolk Council unanimously approved proposals to crack down on the abuse and intimidation of councillors and officers. Labour councillor Alan Green said last month an anonymous person had accused him multiple times of money mismanagement, which had left him "feeling isolated". "Hopefully the new system will assist everybody, including officers and everybody else", he added. Councillors at East Suffolk Council voted unanimously in favour of the motion Council leader Caroline Topping, who represents the Greens, presented the motion. She said: "It is clear and this council believes that intimidation and abuse of councillors undermines democracy. "It hinders elected members from representing their communities, deters people from standing for election and undermines public confidence in the democratic process. "It is fundamentally wrong on a human level." The council's proposals include writing a letter to local MPs and the government asking for support for the Local Government AssociationГўВҖВҷs (LGA) Debate Not Hate campaign and implementing a plan to combat the abuse of council members, the Local Democracy Reporting Service said. They will also include the creation of a clear reporting mechanism for councillors and officers in partnership with police, a review of the support and training available, and taking a zero-tolerance approach to abuse. Conservative councillor Jenny Ceresa said it was sad that action was needed. "When you have a young family, it is dangerous - you donГўВҖВҷt want to put yourself in that position and want to protect your loved ones." Liberal Democrat councillor Seamus Bennett said it was also about setting "the right example" and to be respectful and appropriate. "ItГўВҖВҷs not just about the public but also how we interact with each other across our political divides." Labour councillor George King said: "This is the era we live in and with social media, itГўВҖВҷs going to get worse." Do you have a story suggestion for Suffolk? Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. Warning local democracy at risk over personal abuse Abuse included death threat email - council leader East Suffolk Council Local Democracy Reporting Service Radiographer remembers when Eastenders actor fund-raised for CT scanner The 38 death notices shared this week in the EADT and Ipswich Star 'Very rare opportunity' to tour Edwardian swing bridge Man given suspended sentence for knife possession This is why vintage vehicles will be spotted on the streets of Suffolk Barn conversion on Suffolk/Norfolk border for sale at OIEO ГӮВЈ425,000 Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow Suffolk People 'totally flummoxed' by stolen village signs Two signs are taken from a rural hamlet, leaving villagers confused about who would want them. Three people arrested over town centre stabbing Ed Sheeran auction sees guitar sell for ГӮВЈ11,000 GP surgeries given ГӮВЈ1.5m to meet growing demand Tory chairman: 'Defeat in the East was painful' Council passes motion to clamp down on abuse Bid to turn 500-year-old pub into home refused Couple fined ГӮВЈ3,000 after finding migrant in van Tesco staff threatened with knife and claw hammer Fortnightly bin collection to move to three-weekly Solar farm campaigners withdraw from legal action Campaigners condemn PM's defence of pylons plan Tonight, Low Low of 5ГӮВ° Saturday 28 September,SatГӮВ 28th High of 14ГӮВ° Low of 3ГӮВ° Sunday 29 September,SunГӮВ 29th High of 15ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Monday 30 September,MonГӮВ 30th High of 16ГӮВ° Low of 10ГӮВ° Tuesday 1 October,TueГӮВ 1st High of 15ГӮВ° Low of 10ГӮВ° Ipswich grab late equaliser to deny Southampton Sunrisers beat Stars to win Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy Man accused of falling on Town fan to stand trial Unbeaten Brighton held at home by Ipswich Lib Dem leader 'proud' after four-day week triumph What's with the dark arts? What is nobody talking about? Ipswich Town v Aston Villa Teen crash victim to be honoured at Ipswich Town game What is the one thing nobody is talking about? Secret Suffolk. Flatford Mill: Much more than a pretty picture. Audio, 11 minutesSecret Suffolk Flatford Mill: Much more than a pretty picture Barton Mills: ГӮВЈ3k Stowaway fine for couple. BBC Radio Suffolk. Audio, 00:03:36Barton Mills: ГӮВЈ3k Stowaway fine for couple BBC Radio Suffolk Beano artist from Suffolk 'It's not work' BBC Radio Suffolk. Audio, 00:02:04Beano artist from Suffolk 'It's not work' BBC Radio Suffolk Lowestoft: Railway's fishing links restored. Audio, 00:03:41Lowestoft: Railway's fishing links restored BBC Radio Suffolk Metal detectorist stuck gold... and silver. Audio, 00:03:20Metal detectorist stuck gold... and silver BBC Radio Suffolk McKenna on 'integral' Morsy, squad resilience and Rogers People 'totally flummoxed' by stolen village signs Three people arrested over town centre stabbing Ed Sheeran auction sees guitar sell for ГӮВЈ11,000 What's with the dark arts? Council passes motion to clamp down on abuse GP surgeries given ГӮВЈ1.5m to meet growing demand Bid to turn 500-year-old pub into home refused What is nobody talking about? Heavy rain alert upgraded for areas hit by flooding Couple fined ГӮВЈ3,000 after finding migrant in van Tesco staff threatened with knife and claw hammer Solar farm campaigners withdraw from legal action Campaigners blast bridge demolition plans 'Mr Grumpy' plans final Halloween at pumpkin patch Frustration as parked cars delay resurfacing work Ed Sheeran's guitar and football shirts up for auction Campaigners condemn PM's defence of pylons plan Teen crash victim to be honoured at Ipswich Town game What is the one thing nobody is talking about? Trains cancelled after overhead wire damage Man dies after 'medical episode' on the Broads 'Digestion plant plan is a black cloud over town' Man jailed for 16 sex offences against boys Instagram TikTok Facebook X Radiographer remembers when Eastenders actor fund-raised for CT scanner The 38 death notices shared this week in the EADT and Ipswich Star 'Very rare opportunity' to tour Edwardian swing bridge Man given suspended sentence for knife possession This is why vintage vehicles will be spotted on the streets of Suffolk Barn conversion on Suffolk/Norfolk border for sale at OIEO ГӮВЈ425,000 Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Opened in the 1960s the Merrion Centre in Leeds is home to a growing number of Asian-inspired businesses A 1960s shopping centre in the middle of Leeds may not seem the most obvious place for a cultural revolution. But when a Taiwanese dessert parlour opened earlier this year it kickstarted a transformation that brought a flavour of East Asia to West Yorkshire and helped create a home from home for many international students. Cherry and Hess Cheung came to the UK from Hong Kong to open a dessert bar Meet Fresh is not a well known brand in the UK, but when a new branch opened in Leeds' Merrion Centre in February the queues snaked out the door. For many of those waiting patiently in line its arrival signalled the chance for a bit of home comfort. The restaurant is famous for its taro ball desserts, grass jelly and shaved ice - treats not normally found on the menu in Yorkshire, but a popular treat for many in Taiwan and surrounding countries. "Some of our customers pass by and say, 'oh, Meet Fresh is here, like at home'," manager Cherry Cheung says. Originally from Hong Kong, Cherry came to the UK with her husband, Hess, to open the new branch. And, like the Cheungs, many of their customers are also from overseas, with a large portion of their clientele international students studying in the city. In recent years the number of students at the University of Leeds coming from China alone has more than doubled, to more than 5,500. "Because this brand is from Taiwan, most of our customers are international students," Cherry says. "I'm actually very happy to see them, that they feel at home and that they can have their home food again." Meet Fresh is just one of a number of Asian-inspired businesses that have opened in the Merrion Centre. And, shopping centre bosses have been quick to learn from their tenants, taking a leaf out of their book and using Chinese social media platform Xiaohongshu - or Little Red Book - to help market the precinct. James Broughton says international students are now a "core part" of the Merrion Centre's business "There's been a lot of redevelopment within our immediate catchment area over the last few years and we've seen an abundance of student accommodation around us," says James  Broughton, head of marketing and communications at the Merrion Centre. "Part of that is the international students - they are a core part of our business." According to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), external the nearby University of Leeds attracted 5,530 students from China in the 2022/23 academic year, up from 2,605 in 2017/18. "Because a lot of our tenants are utilising Little Red Book we thought there was an opportunity there," said Mr Broughton. Xiaohongshu, has been described as China's Instagram for e-commerce and is mostly used by young, urban Chinese women. The shopping centre now has a social media role dedicated to making videos for the platform. Mr Boughton adds: "Meet Fresh and some of our more Asian-inspired brands that are well known overseas have transformed the Merrion Centre and our customer base. "We have got plans to keep evolving the centre, keep it refreshed, keep it up to date and keep it relevant for the changing audience." Supermarket employee Cathy says the shop is often "really busy" Traditional high street names now share the centre with bubble tea shops, a noodle bar and a Korean barbecue restaurant. Cathy, works at the Sing Kee supermarket, one of the first businesses to move in and said the promotion on Little Red Book was proving successful. "For the Asian students, we have some colleagues that can speak Japanese, they also can speak Korean or Cantonese so they can chat with them," she tells me. "They feel just like home." "Since last week I've noticed three times the amount of students come - really busy. Sometimes we just go out of stock." Another business which has opened specifically to target the Asian market is Gordon Sung's hair salon. "We've become popular because the Chinese are looking for an Asian hair stylist," says Mr Sung, adding that the salon's decor has been specifically chosen to make it "feel like home" for students. Second year student Tyler Lou says Leeds now feels "like home" According to the HESA, the largest groups of students arriving in Leeds from East Asia come from China, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Indonesia. Tyler Lou, 20, is a second year international student from China, who has come to Leeds to study education. She says arriving in a new city thousands of miles from home was "scary" for the first week, but it now felt like home. "Compared to other cities in the UK I think Leeds is more lively," she said. Ms Lou adds: "I want to stay here, but I have to find a job. "My friends all want to go back to China - they don't like the food here." Duncun, 21, from Malaysia, describes being in Leeds as a "very excellent experience". The third year law student says: "Most of my friends studied here already. I think that's the main reason I came here." 18-year-old Cooper only arrived in Leeds the day before she spoke to ume - the first time she had travelled far away from her hometown in China. "I  heard the lifestyle in Leeds is very chill and very relaxed," she says. "I love it here so far." Listen to highlights from West Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North or tell us a story you think we should be covering here, external. City shopping centre celebrates 60 years Pensioner ГўВҖВҳfeels like criminalГўВҖВҷ after Halifax bank refused access to savings accounts Calderdale community shop celebrates 21 years of trading 'Exciting new chapter' for pub as it reopens after major makeover Jason Manford: Popular comedian to visit Wakefield's Theatre Royal next month Plans to turnГӮВ shop intoГӮВ house share for nine people refused due to ГўВҖВңpoor standard of livingГўВҖВқ predictions Missing man took own life on day he was found guilty of sex offences Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow West Yorkshire Mother's kidney donation gift for daughter Gabrielle and Julia Oldroyd, from Ossett, are recuperating after the transplant procedure. Company's 'skinny' prosecco misled customers Former councillor who secretly filmed women jailed The shopping centre helping students feel at home Ex-PC accused of unauthorised computer searches Man arrested over rail terror message hack Baroness Warsi quits Conservatives in the Lords Man admits role in night of violent disorder Council to decide on introducing parking charges Hospital rebuild costs set to exceed ГӮВЈ1.4bn Rural communities to get superfast broadband Junk food adverts to be banned on buses and trains Tonight, Low Low of 5ГӮВ° Saturday 28 September,SatГӮВ 28th High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 5ГӮВ° Sunday 29 September,SunГӮВ 29th High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Monday 30 September,MonГӮВ 30th High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 10ГӮВ° Tuesday 1 October,TueГӮВ 1st High of 13ГӮВ° Low of 8ГӮВ° BrontГғВ« sisters memorial corrected after 85 years. BBC Radio Leeds. Audio, 00:04:37BrontГғВ« sisters memorial corrected after 85 years BBC Radio Leeds Billy Pearce: 'Bradford's always been kind to me' BBC Radio Leeds. Audio, 00:02:55Billy Pearce: 'Bradford's always been kind to me' BBC Radio Leeds Ossett banking hub: A solution to branch closures? Audio, 00:02:14Ossett banking hub: A solution to branch closures? BBC Radio Leeds Bradford media museum revamp: Ready for January? Audio, 00:02:03Bradford media museum revamp: Ready for January? BBC Radio Leeds Strictly is coming to Leeds. Audio, 00:03:44Strictly is coming to Leeds BBC Radio Leeds Coad boosts wickets tally against Northants Ben Coad takes three wickets to reach 55 for the season as Northants struggle to 117-6 on day two of their rain-hit game against Yorkshire. Huddersfield sign Hull FC centre Sutcliffe County Championship 2024 team of the season as chosen by you Durham-Kent and four Division Two games rained off Huddersfield defender Helik out for two months Huddersfield appoint Finn as assistant  All-rounder Bess signs new Yorkshire deal Duff criticises Huddersfield's 'soft underbelly' Reading v Huddersfield Town Halifax Town v Wealdstone Leeds United v Coventry City Australia in England and Wales 2024 Mother's kidney donation gift for daughter Company's 'skinny' prosecco misled customers Huddersfield sign Hull FC centre Sutcliffe Former councillor who secretly filmed women jailed Ex-PC accused of unauthorised computer searches The shopping centre helping students feel at home Huddersfield defender Helik out for two months Balotelli... 'Yalright' Man admits role in night of violent disorder Light Night set to provide storytelling spectacle Durham-Kent and four Division Two games rained off Farke on injuries, Joseph and Coventry City Man, 79, seriously injured in van crash Man due in court over Harehills disorder Huddersfield appoint Finn as assistant  Council to decide on introducing parking charges Darby and Houghton on MND, retirement and 'not wasting time' Hospital rebuild costs set to exceed ГӮВЈ1.4bn Rural communities to get superfast broadband 'They love me and I love them' - Gnonto on Leeds fans Instagram TikTok Facebook X Pensioner ГўВҖВҳfeels like criminalГўВҖВҷ after Halifax bank refused access to savings accounts Calderdale community shop celebrates 21 years of trading 'Exciting new chapter' for pub as it reopens after major makeover Jason Manford: Popular comedian to visit Wakefield's Theatre Royal next month Plans to turnГӮВ shop intoГӮВ house share for nine people refused due to ГўВҖВңpoor standard of livingГўВҖВқ predictions Missing man took own life on day he was found guilty of sex offences Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Protests continued outside Chelmsford Crown Court on Wednesday Court interpreters and translators have withdrawn services at a court in a protest over freelance working conditions, with one claiming her peers live "pretty much on the poverty line". Interpreters outside Chelmsford Crown Court say the introduction of a booking app by contractor thebigword (TBW) has led to problems with invoicing and payments. The services - which help witnesses and defendants understand court procedures and language - were outsourced by the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) in 2012. A spokesperson for His MajestyГўВҖВҷs Courts and Tribunals Service said it was aware of walkouts "at a small number of criminal courts" but measures were in place to minimise disruption. Sophie, who preferred not to give her surname, began work as an interpreter in 2013. She said colleagues had endured late cancellations, travel cost issues, and in some cases, one hour's pay for a full-day booking. Sophie, who has been an interpreter for over a decade, says the system is being "hugely failed" The decision to halt their services comes as the UK faces a court backlog of over 60,000 cases. TBW was handed the ГӮВЈ15m contract to provide translation services to courts by the government in 2016. The company provides telephone and face-to-face interpreting and translation services to the MoJ and other government departments, as well as the NHS and the emergency services. Interpreters prioritise speed and spoken language live in court, whereas translators deal with the written word. Sophie said: "You can effectively go somewhere and you can be cancelled off and adjourned.. and end up completely out of pocket." Cristina, who has been an interpreter since 2018, also said she had found issues with the booking app. "The jobs have disappeared when we went to invoice them - or part of the payment that we agreed on is not appearing on the portal anymore - so we don't get the pay for our services," she said. She also said the courts were frequently told that interpreters were not available, when they were in fact waiting for work, "unable to see the jobs or unhappy with their pay". The action taken by interpreters is not classed as a strike as the workers are not employed by TBW, but instead work on a freelance basis. Their case has been taken up by the law firm Leigh Day, which is pushing to grant them full rights under employment law, external, including holiday pay and the minimum wage. Gabriel Morrison, a senior associate solicitor in the employment team, said: ГўВҖВңSome of the experiences reported by interpreters, which have now resulted in the temporary withdrawal of their services, demonstrate the inequity between thebigword and their interpreter workforce." He added that when the company's system fails, it is "the interpreters who are left out of pocket as a result of those failings". "The control over the interpreters and integration into thebigwordГўВҖВҷs business is why we consider that they are workers, rather than independent contractors," he said. TBW has been approached by the BBC for comment. Do you have a story suggestion for Essex? Follow Essex news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. Target to cut court backlog cannot be met, says watchdog Chronic backlog of serious-crime cases hits courts Translators 'unqualified' for police work The Ministry of Justice The stats pack ahead of Blues' clash with Gateshead Councillor withdraws ГўВҖВҳpublic hangingГўВҖВҷ comment over Thurrock debt mountain Council stands firm on decision for evening parking charges on Southend seafront Greater Anglia delays to services after person hit by train in north Essex Wheelchair users call for Lime Bikes to be 'sorted' amid 'dangerous' routes Plans revealed for new housing estate in Wickford Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow Essex Man dies after collision between two cars Essex Police is looking for dashcam footage and has asked anyone with information to come forward. Widespread pavement repairs for city centre Dozens of 'zombie' knives surrendered to police  Burst pipe hits water supply for 1,000 properties Train evacuated after it crashes into fallen tree Council votes for public inquiry into 'bankruptcy' Debt ridden council pledges cash for pensioners England chances seem to be gone - Essex's Porter Traffic held for second motorway crash in two days Family make 'precious moments' after beating cancer Stolen cars worth ГӮВЈ500k found in containers  Woman who had spine surgery prepares for race Mum says son died in 'hell on Earth' facility Families mourn loved ones at Lampard Inquiry What is the Lampard Inquiry and what could it change? Inquiry told of 'toxic culture' in mental health Not being called to inquiry is 'kick in teeth' Tonight, Low Low of 5ГӮВ° Saturday 28 September,SatГӮВ 28th High of 14ГӮВ° Low of 4ГӮВ° Sunday 29 September,SunГӮВ 29th High of 15ГӮВ° Low of 10ГӮВ° Monday 30 September,MonГӮВ 30th High of 16ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Tuesday 1 October,TueГӮВ 1st High of 15ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° England chances seem to be gone - Essex's Porter Five County Championship games abandoned on day two County Championship 2024 team of the season as chosen by you Elgar & Westley hit fifties for Essex against Surrey Okoh 'shocked' to find out she had won Paris medal Call the Midwife star hopes to save Essex pub. Audio, 00:03:02Call the Midwife star hopes to save Essex pub Princess Alexandra in Harlow in 'poor condition' Audio, 00:01:32Princess Alexandra in Harlow in 'poor condition' Frinton-on-Sea and the ГўВҖВҳMother of pigeonsГўВҖВҷ Audio, 00:03:02Frinton-on-Sea and the ГўВҖВҳMother of pigeonsГўВҖВҷ Justin Timberlake is coming to Chelmsford next year. Audio, 00:02:17Justin Timberlake is coming to Chelmsford next year Walsall v Colchester United Southend United v Gateshead Rochdale v Braintree Town Man dies after collision between two cars England chances seem to be gone - Essex's Porter Burst pipe hits water supply for 1,000 properties Widespread pavement repairs for city centre Dozens of 'zombie' knives surrendered to police  Train evacuated after it crashes into fallen tree Five County Championship games abandoned on day two Council votes for public inquiry into 'bankruptcy' Debt ridden council pledges cash for pensioners County Championship 2024 team of the season as chosen by you Traffic held for second motorway crash in two days Family make 'precious moments' after beating cancer Stolen cars worth ГӮВЈ500k found in containers  Police deliver pizza after stopping driver Man jailed for abusing child in 1970s Elgar & Westley hit fifties for Essex against Surrey Heavy rain alert upgraded for areas hit by flooding Loose Women star becomes patron of new Send centre Two people rescued from car trapped in flood water Court interpreters protest over pay and conditions Multi-vehicle collision closes section of motorway Instagram TikTok Facebook X The stats pack ahead of Blues' clash with Gateshead Councillor withdraws ГўВҖВҳpublic hangingГўВҖВҷ comment over Thurrock debt mountain Council stands firm on decision for evening parking charges on Southend seafront Greater Anglia delays to services after person hit by train in north Essex Wheelchair users call for Lime Bikes to be 'sorted' amid 'dangerous' routes Plans revealed for new housing estate in Wickford Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Tracy Canham fell victim to a Facebook scam after thinking she had booked a holiday in Lincolnshire A grandmother was scammed out of hundreds of pounds after booking what she thought was a family holiday in Lincolnshire through Facebook. Tracy Canham, 60, from Coalville, Leicestershire, said she had paid ГӮВЈ565 for a lodge at Tattershall Lakes Country Park, before she realised the profile sending messages to her was fake. She told the BBC the profile had looked "authentic" and had exchanged several messages on the social media platform. A spokesperson for Meta, which owns Facebook, said it was "continually investing in protections against fraud". Ms Canham said she had booked the trip for her two granddaughters and it would have been her first holiday since she finished treatment for a serious illness. She said: "I was angry more than anything. IГўВҖВҷd already told the grandchildren that we were going and they were really excited. "The scammers are just awful. ItГўВҖВҷs not just the fact they take your money, itГўВҖВҷs the impact they have. ItГўВҖВҷs disgusting really." Ms Canham reported the incident to her bank and was eventually given a refund. Laura Miller, the group head of marketing at Away Resorts, which owns Tattershall Lakes, said they had been contacted by people who had been scammed this year. She said: ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs hugely frustrating for us. WeГўВҖВҷre an honest business, trying to make happy holiday memories and itГўВҖВҷs awful for the people who have been scammed.ГўВҖВқ Action Fraud, the national centre for fraud and cybercrime, said people lost ГӮВЈ12.3m to holiday fraud in 2023, with 6,640 cases reported to them. Claire Webb, director of Action Fraud, said: "When booking caravan holidays online, only use official or well-known holiday booking websites. "If someone on a social media platform offers you a cheaper deal, or a price too good to be true, this could be a fraudster intent on stealing from you." A spokesperson for Facebook owner Meta said: "We donГўВҖВҷt allow fraudulent activity on our platforms and we remove this content as soon as we become aware of it. "We are for people who use our platforms and work closely with law enforcement to support investigations." Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here, external. Fudge maker 'over the moon' after Instagram U-turn How fraudsters are getting fake articles onto Facebook Caravan scammers conning people out of holiday cash Meta Action Fraud Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow England Boys who killed with machete aged 12 are detained The two boys, now aged 13, are the youngest convicted killers since the murderers of James Bulger. A&E doctor 'refused' to see woman before she died Activists throw soup on Van Gogh painting again It's only fireworks, Briton in Lebanon tells sons Two men found guilty of car attack on NHS worker Cars and rail lines submerged as flood risk persists Company's 'skinny' prosecco misled customers Trans woman sentenced to six years for rape Former councillor who secretly filmed women jailed Dog walker falls down 32ft ravine on forest walk People 'totally flummoxed' by stolen village signs How Cinnamon's great escape led to capybara craze River levels to rise as flood alerts remain in place Firefighters rescue 35 people from caravan park Dredging 'a sticking plaster' flooded residents told Stranded drivers rescued amid 'significant flooding' In pictures: Flooding hits south of England Island mourns Shawn Seesahai machete murder 4,000 miles away 'WeГўВҖВҷre sharing and rationing ADHD meds to get byГўВҖВҷ 'Suicidal grief is on a whole different level' 'I went to Poland for a tummy tuck and nearly died' Mystery surrounds 'Margate Man' three decades on Ship leap 'probably scariest thing I've done' Video, 00:01:09Ship leap 'probably scariest thing I've done' Gurners grimace in championship face-off. Video, 00:00:46Gurners grimace in championship face-off Refuse workers' lucky escape after lorry explosion. Video, 00:00:14Refuse workers' lucky escape after lorry explosion Man caught on camera dealing drugs from pants. Video, 00:00:37Man caught on camera dealing drugs from pants Impressive England thrash Australia to level ODI series Guardiola says he's been provoked into bigger Arsenal rivalry Ruthless Chelsea smash Palace for seven at Selhurst Park Leigh stun Salford to reach first semi-final Instagram TikTok Facebook X Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. Filmmaker James Cameron has joined the board of directors of artificial intelligence (AI) firm StabilityAI, 40 years after making a film about its risks. In 1984's The Terminator, which Cameron wrote and directed, a rogue AI called Skynet threatens the existence of mankind. But the creator of the fictional AI has not been hired to help avoid such tech being developed in real life. Instead, his role will centre around how the technology can be used in special effects, also known as computer-generated images (CGI). ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷve spent my career seeking out emerging technologies that push the very boundaries of whatГўВҖВҷs possible, all in the service of telling incredible stories," he said. "I was at the forefront of CGI over three decades ago, and IГўВҖВҷve stayed on the cutting edge since. "Now, the intersection of generative AI and CGI image creation is the next wave." Amongst his long list of hit movies, Cameron is known for creating special effects-heavy Avatar, the highest-grossing film of all time. His new place of work, StabilityAI, is best known for making Stable Diffusion - which can generate images based on a user's text prompt. It is also branching out into video, with Stable Video Diffusion, which works in the same way. It is this tech that Cameron seems to have been brought on to help develop. Proponents of AI video generation say it will enable artists to quickly create complicated digital effects. But for many creatives - and Cameron's contemporaries - this use of the technology is considered controversial at best. Last week, Pan's Labyrinth director Guillermo del Toro criticised AI-generated video during a talk at the British Film Institute in London, external, saying it could not generate much beyond "semi-compelling screensavers". Michael Bay said last year, external the tech "will create a whole bunch of lazy people" because "it doesn't create, it just imitates". And Hiyao Miyazaki, who wrote and directed animated classic Spirited Away, previously said he was "disgusted" by an AI-generated video and called it "an insult to life itself". Cameron previously said he used AI to help with the special effects used in the making of 2022's Avatar sequel The Way of Water, which is the third-highest grossing film of all time Rashik Parmar, head of BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT, told the BBC the filmmaker's appointment comes at a time when "many of societyГўВҖВҷs fears about AI" come from movies. "We watch Terminator and we form the idea that AI has malicious intentions towards humanity and that it will destroy us in the near future," he said. "Cameron has a real opportunity to change the narrative and build a positive view of AI, weГўВҖВҷre very happy to work with him on that." One of Cameron's first challenges in his new role will be to shore up StabilityAI's position in the wider generativeAI landscape, where it faces stiff competition. OpenAI's rival video generation tool Sora is the most high-profile name in the space, with Reuters reporting, external Hollywood executives have discussed with the firm how the film industry could use its tech. Meanwhile, Hunger Games and John Wick studio Lionsgate made a deal last week with AI firm Runway to create tools based on its massive archive of film and TV. And in recent weeks the video generation landscape has been shaken by the sudden emergence of MiniMax, created by China-based HailuoAI, external. The tool became popular on social media this month thanks to its ability to quickly create high-quality video from just a few lines of text. In particular, a recent trend has seen people using the tool to make videos about chef Gordon Ramsay, with one such popular post seeing him skydiving while cooking spaghetti. Ramsay has not responded to a request for comment. And Cameron is joining the AI industry at a critical time for a different reason - copyright. The technology works by analysing human-made pictures, including images found online, and artists claim this means their work has been used without permission. Stability AI founder Emad Mostaque has previously told BBC News Stable Diffusion is trained using "100,000 GB of images" taken from the internet. Getty Images, which is working on its own AI image generator, is suing StabilityAI over this very thing. LinkedIn suspends AI training using UK user data London cinema drops AI-written film after backlash Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Some secondary schools in Hitchin, such as Hitchin Boys and The Priory,  have already announced their plans to join William Ransom Primary School to be ГўВҖВҳphone-freeГўВҖВҷ Parents have signed a pledge to delay giving their child a smartphone until the end of Year 9 when most will have turned 14. William Ransom Primary School, in Hitchin, Hertfordshire, has asked all 25 primaries in the town to join them in requesting that parents do not give their pupils smartphones. Earlier this year, a group of parents at the school agreed they did not want to give their children smartphones and raised it with head teacher Tony Plunkett, who supported their campaign. He said: "You don't want to alienate your child, so you inevitably give them access. Hopefully, what we're doing is trying to build that community where more children do not have phones than do." "It makes it easier for parents to say, 'Actually your friends are not on that, and therefore we don't need to give you access to it'," he explained. He hopes to have all the town's primary schools signed up to be smartphone-free this school year. Mr Plunket said: "The benefit is children being children again. They're too young to be stuck on a screen; they need those real-life experiences." Head teacher Tony Plunkett wants all of Hitchin's schools to join his smartphone pledge. Like-minded parents have previously united on this issue with Smartphone Free Childhood, external chat groups, founded by Daisy Greenwell, from Suffolk. It began when she set up a WhatsApp group with another mother to support each other in delaying getting their children smart phones. She told Politics East: "It then went viral, and thousands of people joined it overnight. "I can really understand why a parent wants to be in touch with their child and to keep them safe, but, actually, there are other ways of doing that without any of the harms of the internet." Parent Richard Bowdler was the first to raise the issue with the school The first parent to bring it up with staff at William Ransom Primary School was Richard Bowdler. He said: "There was an unspoken consensus that when children went to secondary school they would get smartphones. We thought that wasnГўВҖВҷt OK and wanted to change that norm. "It was slow and tentative at the start; there were just a handful of us in February. But we spoke to the headteacher, Mr Plunkett, and he was very supportive." Mr Plunkett explained: "We're asking children to use phones when they don't understand the art of conversation yet. "It results in friendship issues at different levels. What you tend to find from those is that a lot of those originate from simple comments that were either badly worded jokes and a child just got it wrong. Everything steam rolls from there." A report by Kings College London, external found teenagers with problematic phone usage are twice as likely to have anxiety. According to Ofcom, external, 84% of bullying in eight to 17-year-olds is via their phone. Some children at the school such as Amelie (left) already have a phone, others such as Luke (right) do not Year 6 student Amelie uses her phone to text her parents so that she can go down to the local shop safely, but she also chats to her friends. She said: "My dad said he didnГўВҖВҷt think it was a good idea for me to have a phone so young, but I like it. As long as weГўВҖВҷre not using them too much, I think itГўВҖВҷs fine.ГўВҖВқ Her classmate Luke does not want a smartphone, he says, because he likes being outside. He said: ГўВҖВңMy brotherГўВҖВҷs 15 and he uses his phone quite a lot. I donГўВҖВҷt want to miss out on doing sport because IГўВҖВҷm playing games on my phone.ГўВҖВқ This video can not be played Parents sign up to ban smartphones in Herts school Do you have a story suggestion for Beds, Herts & Bucks? Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. Gloucestershire parents joining ban on smartphones EE tells parents: don't give under-11s smartphones One of England's biggest school academy trusts to ban phone use William Ransom Primary School Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. Follow Technology Fishing for old memories in new waters New mystery starring Annette Bening How the secret Banksy empire works Check into remarkable world-class hotels ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. This page explains how the BBC can keep you in touch with the latest news. We offer emails and breaking news alerts via the BBC News website, the BBC News app and Twitter. Sign up here to receive a range of BBC News editorial newsletters delivered straight to your inbox throughout the week. These are email updates on the latest news, insights and topics across BBC News. Whenever you come to the BBC News website on a tablet or computer, you'll get notified of the latest breaking news in the 'breaking news banner' which automatically appears at the bottom of your browser window. The banner will disappear when you click on it, dismiss it or visit another page. Push notifications are available to users of smartphones and tablets who download the BBC News app, allowing you to receive breaking news alerts. When a push notification is received it will pop up on your screen similar to a text message, regardless of whether or not the app is open at the time. Depending on your settings the alert may also be accompanied by a sound. Tapping the notification will load the corresponding story in the app when it is available. Full details on how push alerts work are available for iPhone and iPads and Android. You can choose to unsubscribe from push notifications from BBC News in your device's "Notifications" screen. On Twitter, we offer a  breaking news account which you can follow and receive breaking news alerts as they happen. To subscribe login or register with Twitter and then follow @BBCBreaking, external. Please choose one of the following: For help to solve TV or Radio reception problems visit the Help Receiving TV and Radio website or use our Transmitter Checker tool to check for any known problems or faults in your area. To send us a story. To report factual or grammatical issues with our online stories. To report a technical issue with the News website or app. If you want to complain about any BBC news output, go to the BBC Complaints website. Every day BBC News brings you the latest stories from across the globe but what we want to hear are the issues that matter to you. The part you play in making the news is very important. Whether it is breaking news or a featured item, your contribution can make a difference. Have you seen or been involved in a news event? Is something significant, bizarre or unusual happening where you live? Have you got a story to tell or is there something you think we should follow up? Are there topics you want to get the world talking about? On what do you want to comment? Or do you want to find out what others are talking about? Terms of use for sending contributions to the BBC and the BBC's privacy policy. If you have a story, picture or video you wish to share, here are the different ways to send in your contributions: Contact us on Twitter Contact us at twitter.com/BBC_HaveYourSay, external We may use your tweets displaying your Twitter username on BBC output. Message us via WhatsApp You can send a picture, video or message to our WhatsApp account +44 7756 165803, external. In some cases your text, as well as your images, may be used on BBC output. We will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your mobile phone number. We aim to read all of your messages but due to the numbers we receive each day it is not always possible to reply to everyone individually. Email Email your stories to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk, external We aim to read all of your emails but due to the numbers we receive each day it is not always possible to reply to everyone individually. In some cases your images or audio may be used on BBC output. If we use your material on BBC programmes or online we will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your email address. Upload You can also upload, external your video or pictures. In some cases your images may be used on BBC output. We will publish your name as you provide it, unless you ask us not to. Is there a story you would like us to investigate? Use this form to let us know. If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your story or send them via email to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk, external. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. Terms and conditions The BBC's Privacy Policy Israel strikes Beirut buildings after reportedly targeting Hezbollah leader Bowen: Huge Beirut strike leaves West powerless as Israel chases victory Tributes paid to 'true legend' Dame Maggie Smith From small stage to big screen, Dame Maggie's moving performances always stole the show Watch: Jean Brodie, Prof McGonagall and other classic Dame Maggie roles The Papers: Maggie Smith mourned and Johnson's Covid 'war cry' Bridgerton ball promised glamour. The BBC is recognised by audiences in the UK and around the world as a provider of news that you can trust. Our website, like our TV and radio services, strives for journalism that is accurate, impartial, independent and fair. Our editorial values say: "The trust that our audience has in all our content underpins everything that we do. We are independent, impartial and honest. We are committed to achieving the highest standards of accuracy and impartiality and strive to avoid knowingly or materially misleading our audiences. "Our commitment to impartiality is at the heart of that relationship of trust. In all our output we will treat every subject with an impartiality that reflects the full range of views. We will consider all the relevant facts fairly and with an open mind." Research shows that, compared to other broadcasters, newspapers and online sites, the BBC is seen as by far the most trusted and impartial news provider in the UK [PDF], external. Even so, we know that identifying credible journalism on the internet can be a confusing experience. We also know that audiences want to understand more about how BBC journalism is produced. For these reasons, BBC News is making even greater efforts to explain what type of information you are reading or watching on our website, who and where the information is coming from, and how a story was crafted the way it was. By doing so, we can help you judge for yourself why BBC News can be trusted. We are also making these indicators of trustworthy journalism "machine-readable", meaning that they can be picked up by search engines and social media platforms, helping them to better identify reliable sources of information too. These indicators comprise the following areas: Newsroom best practice Type of Work Journalist Expertise Citations and References Methodology The BBC has long had its own Editorial Guidelines that apply to all of our content and set out the standards expected of our journalists. To make it easier to see how BBC guidelines are used in our newsroom, we have listed all the relevant sections on this page. Mission Statement: The mission of the BBC is to act in the public interest, serving all audiences through the provision of impartial, high-quality and distinctive output and services that inform, educate and entertain. Full details are in the BBC Charter, external. Ownership Structure, Funding and Grants: We are independent of outside interests and arrangements that could undermine our editorial integrity. Our audiences should be confident that our decisions are not influenced by outside interests, political or commercial pressures, or any personal interests. Learn more about how BBC News is funded, in the UK and internationally, in the BBC Charter on the independence of the BBC, external. Other links: Editorial Guidelines on Impartiality Editorial Guidelines on Editorial Standards Editorial Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest BBC Framework Agreement on provision of commercial activities, external Guidelines for BBC Commercial Services Founding Date: The BBC was founded on 18 October 1922. Read more about the history of the BBC. Ethics Policy: The BBC's Editorial Guidelines outline the editorial values and practices that all our output is expected to conform to. Other links: BBC Charter and Framework Agreement, external BBC World Service Operating Licence, external Diversity Policy: Learn about BBC News' commitment to diversity in the BBC Charter, external. Other links: Editorial Guidelines Section on Impartiality and Diversity of Opinion Diversity and Inclusion page Diversity Staffing Report: Find out about how BBC News is working to increase diversity in the BBC's Equality Information Report. Corrections: The BBC is committed to achieving due accuracy. Policies relating to corrections can be found in the following sections of our Editorial Guidelines. Our output must be well sourced, based on sound evidence, thoroughly tested and presented in clear, precise language. We should be honest and open about what we don't know and avoid unfounded speculation. Claims, allegations, material facts and other content that cannot be corroborated should normally be attributed. We are open in acknowledging mistakes when they are made and encourage a culture of willingness to learn from them. If an article has been edited since publication to correct a material inaccuracy, a note will be added at the end of the text to signal to the reader there has been an amendment or correction with the date of that change. If there is a small error in a story that does not alter its editorial meaning (eg name misspelling), the correction will be made without an additional note. Unless content is specifically made available only for a limited time period, there is a presumption that material published online will become part of a permanently accessible archive and will not normally be removed. Exceptional circumstances may include legal reasons, personal safety risks, or a serious breach of editorial standards that cannot be rectified except by removal of the material. Other links: Editorial Guidelines on Accountability Editorial Guidelines on Removal of Online Content Verification/Fact-checking Standards: The BBC's accuracy and verification policy is outlined in the Editorial Guidelines on Accuracy. Other links: Ofcom Operating Framework and Licence for the BBC, external Unnamed Sources:  The BBC's policy and guidance on the use of anonymous sources is detailed in the Editorial Guidelines. Other links: Editorial Guidelines - Mandatory referrals Editorial Guidelines - Gathering material Editorial Guidelines on user contributions in news output Actionable Feedback: The BBC's complaints procedure is outlined in the BBC Complaints Framework. Other links: Have Your Say Contact Us Leadership: Meet the senior executive team that runs the news division: BBC News Board. BBC News articles based on original reporting carry bylines (the name of the journalist), as often do those authored by journalists who have a subject specialism. General news stories, which tend to combine information from a variety of sources, including news agencies, BBC Newsgathering and BBC broadcast output, or which may have been produced by several members of staff over the course of the day, do not as a rule carry bylines. Article bylines for many correspondents and editors link to individual blog pages, where biographical information, expertise, and social media details can be found. BBC News distinguishes between factual reporting and opinion. We use machine-readable labels in six categories: News - Journalism based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources Analysis - Output primarily based on the specialist knowledge of an author, whether a BBC journalist or outside expert, to help you understand complex current affairs and trends Ask the Audience - Content created primarily to elicit direct audience response Explainer - Content that provides clear factual explanation of the causes or context behind the news Opinion - BBC News itself is impartial and does not offer opinions but we do sometimes publish expressions of personal views by outside experts, advocating ideas and drawing conclusions based on the author's interpretation of facts and data Review - Content based on a critical appraisal of an event, a work of art etc, containing first-hand opinion  Our output, as appropriate to its subject and nature, should be well sourced, based on sound evidence, thoroughly tested and presented in clear, precise language. We strive to be honest and open about what we don't know and avoid unfounded speculation. Where BBC News relies on a single source for a key aspect of its coverage, we will strive to credit that source, where possible. We usually link to official reports, sets of statistics and other sources of information, to enable you to judge for yourself the underlying information that we are reporting on. Whenever appropriate, we also offer links to relevant third-party websites that provide additional information, source material or informed comment. For in-depth pieces of work, such as complex investigations or data journalism projects, we will help you understand how we went about our work by showing the underlying data and by disclosing any caveats, assumptions or other methodological frameworks used - for example, the study-design; the sample size; representativeness; margins of error; how the data was collected; geographical relevance and time periods. Bob, Paul and Ted are targeting tench, and Bob makes PaulвҖҷs dreams come true when he reveals their overnight accommodation. More
 Retirement is not what Joy and Stan Delaney hoped it would be, until a mysterious visitor arrives. When Joy later goes missing, her children suspect foul play. Money, art, politics: what we know about how the secret Banksy empire works. Rob Rinder and Monica Galetti work behind the scenes of a hotel that is built downwards into a quarry, with high-tech guest experiences and rooms with windows looking into aquariums. More

 Taster is a platform for testing new, experimental content from the BBC. You can Try, Rate and Share new ideas from the BBC and its partners, as well as explore the catalogue of previous pilots. All content on this site is designed for people over 16, and may contain adult themes. We really want your feedback to help us steer future research and development. Taster will be updated regularly as ideas come and go. For more see the Terms of Use. Top Gear Series 19: 7. Africa Special: Part 2 People Just Do Nothing Series 3: 4. New Friends
 We want everyone to enjoy the BBC. But there are a few rules to stick to. Take a look through our explainers to see what you (and we) can and can't do. Our explainers cover questions we often get asked. Can't find what you're after? Take a look at the full version of the Terms of Use. Everything you need to know about the workings of the BBC WeвҖҷre impartial and independent, and every day we create distinctive, world-class programmes and content which inform, educate and entertain millions of people in the UK and around the world. We do this across: Established by aВ Royal Charter, the BBC is principally funded through theВ licence feeВ paid by UK households. Our role is toВ fulfil our mission and promote our Public Purposes. Our commercial operationsВ including BBC Studios,В the BBCвҖҷs award-winning production company and world-class distributor, provide additional revenue for investment in new programming and services for UK audiences. The BBCвҖҷs BoardВ ensures that we deliver our mission and public purposes which are set out in the Charter. The Executive CommitteeВ is responsible for day-to-day management. We are regulated byВ Ofcom. The page will automatically reload. You may need to reload again if the build takes longer than expected. Select a theme and theme mode and click "Load theme" to load in your theme combination. We take your privacy very seriously. And so should you. So have a look around to see what weвҖҷre doing with your personal information and how weвҖҷre keeping it secure. Read our privacy promise. Cookies help us remember you and show you more things we think youГўВҖВҷll like. Have a browse to see what we use them for and how you can change your settings to suit you. The Parental Guidance Lock helps you control what people in your household can and can't watch on iPlayer or listen to in BBC Sounds. Turn it on and we'll ask you to create a PIN. Then, whenever anyone tries to watch or listen to anything with a BBC Guidance label, they'll have to enter the PIN. What are Guidance labels? Bear in mind, this will only turn it on in the internet browser on this device. So you may want to also turn on the Parental Guidance Lock separately on your other devices. Menu Choose from these areas for information or help about our programmes and services. Information about issues, programmes or services which we're often asked about. Get support to resolve problems with BBC iPlayer, along with how to guides, FAQs and updates on known issues. Get support to resolve problems with BBC Sounds, along with how to guides, FAQs and updates on known issues. Details of organisations offering support if you're affected by issues in our coverage The BBC helped raise over ВЈ105 million for charities in 2020/21. Find out more about how you can help. Latest transmitter status and support for problems or interference receiving BBC TV and Radio
 Menu These pages have information about how to complain to the BBC, with links to the BBCвҖҷs Complaints Framework, the BBCвҖҷs regulator Ofcom and regular reports about complaints. If you would like to understand how we collect and use personal data, please refer to our privacy notice. Watch our short film to learn more about how the BBC responds to your feedback. These are recent public responses we have made to issues of wide audience concern which have either generated significant numbers of complaints or raised significant issues (we do not respond publicly to all complaints we reply to). Record your complaint 24 hours a day:
03700 100 222* 03700 100 212* (textphone) (*charged as geographic numbers) BBC Complaints
PO Box 1922,
Darlington,
DL3 0UR. Subscribe to BBC emails for you Every week we send a round-up of the latest shows, services and experiences from across the BBC in our email updates. Plus, if we spot anything extra we think you'll love, we'll let you know about that too. Simply sign up today and don't worry ГўВҖВ“ you can unsubscribe from these emails at any time. This guidance note relates to the following Editorial Guidelines:В  Part 1: LinksВ  Part 2: Inbound feeds and embedsВ  Scope This Guidance Note is designed to help you select and manage suitable external links to other sites from BBC Online. It is also designed to help you select and manage suitable inbound feeds and other online sources of third-party content for publication on BBC Online. For advice on distribution, including syndication, see Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing: Distribution. See Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing: DistributionВ  16.3.14 ГўВҖВ“ 16.3.16 Introduction The BBCГўВҖВҷs global reputation is based on its editorial integrity and independence. Our audiences need to be confident that our decisions are influenced neither by political or commercial pressures, nor by any personal interests. We must not undermine these values by any actions which could bring the BBC into disrepute. The Editorial Guidelines state that: Links to external sites Whenever producers are creating content on a BBC site, they should actively consider which external websites it may be editorially justifiable to link to. Editorial justification for linking to external sites Producers may wish to offer links to external sites for a number of reasons, including: A link must never be included on the public service site or within the editorial content of a commercial site in return for cash, services or any other consideration in kind. All links on the BBC Public Service site or on the editorial pages of a BBC Commercial site must be editorially justifiable and suitable for the intended audience ГўВҖВ“ particularly children. Links are not acceptable as a form of credit. Editorial checks Producers must check the contents of the site which is signposted before adding a link to a BBC page, although responsibility for including the link lies with the relevant editor. Where this is practical, we should consider ways to make it easy for users who find broken, stale or inappropriate external BBC links to report these to us so that we can check, update, replace or remove them. Disclaimers Where we publish a list of links we should add the standard disclaimer to the effect that "the BBC is not responsible for the contents of any other sites listed". If the links are to controversial or challenging material, itВ  may be appropriate to add a specific disclaimer and more information, closer to the links,В  even when there are only one or two links on a page. For ГўВҖВңin storyГўВҖВқ links to such material, for example to very sensitive content such as a gruelling account of torture, it may be helpful to alert the user to this, in context, as part of telling the story. Links to sites which do not share BBC editorial values Context is important in deciding whether a link is appropriate and it is often useful to explain why we are offering the link. In some cases we may offer a link to a site which does not share our editorial values, but which offers a useful insight. For example we might link from a current affairs page to the site of a government-run national news agency so that the user can see the precise words used in a government statement. Controversial content We must be duly impartial. BBC sites which cover a controversial or public policy matter may offer links to external sites which, taken together, represent a reasonable range of views about the subject. We should ensure that when we link to third party sites that we take into account any concerns about potential breaches of the law, for example, defamation or incitement to racial hatred. Where content is likely to cause serious offence to some users and yet there is a strong editorial justification for covering the story, it may be editorially justifiable for the BBC to link to the relevant site rather than to host the content ourselves. Charities Links to charity sites have to be based on sensible editorial criteria. If one charity is in the news, it may be appropriate to establish a link to the site of that charity. But we must take care not to promote one charity above another. If we are giving advice or general information about the subject and wish to refer to a charity and there is a range of charities working in the field, we should normally link to the other significant charities working in the field as well. This guidance applies to online links offered by BBC Action Lines. (See Editorial Guidelines Section 14 : Independence from External Interests: BBC Support Services 14.3.26) We should also consider where on the charity website we link to ГўВҖВ“ for example it may be appropriate to link to useful sources of information, but not to campaigning or fundraising pages. Programme Support For programme support pages, an external link should be justified by the relevance and value of the material to the programme's viewers and listeners. If we give a link to an outside advice agency from a support page, we should give links to a reasonable range of other relevant agencies as well. Where a consumer programme reviews a product or service, we should only offer links to the sites of the manufacturers, suppliers or retailers of any goods or services mentioned where strictly editorially justifiable. Undue prominence There must be no undue prominence of products, services or trade marks in our content. (See Editorial Guidelines Section 14 : Independence from External Interests: Product Prominence 14.3.1) Public Services must not endorse or promote any other organisation, or its products, services or trademarks, so great care must be taken when linking to any site in order not to give the impression that the BBC is doing so. BBC Public Service sites should not normally link direct to pages whose main purpose is transactional e.g. selling merchandise, downloads or tickets. See exceptions below for links to buy BBC-related programme content and links to buy tickets for BBC Events. There are some occasions where we may also wish to link directly to a donations page for a BBC charitable appeal. (See Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing: Charities 16.3.43) If in any doubt, refer to Editorial Policy. Links from BBC Public Services to the BBCГўВҖВҷs Commercial sites General points: Links to buy tickets BBC programmes and sites regularly cover music concerts and tours. Linking policy to sites where users can buy tickets will depend on the nature of the event. If it is a BBC mounted or run event (on the Public Services to contribute to the BBCГўВҖВҷs Mission and Public Purposes), then a direct link to the source of the tickets is likely to be editorially justifiable. (See Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing В Ticket Sales 16.3.34) If it is not a BBC mounted or run event (and where for example a BBC network is simply broadcasting a concert organised by someone else) then a direct link to the relevant bandГўВҖВҷs site is likely to be editorially justifiable, with one more click from there to the ticket agencyГўВҖВҷs site. Pulling third-party content on to BBC Online pages is more editorially sensitive than linking externally. Following an external link takes you away from the BBC site and users have a chance to adjust their expectations in the light of that journey. But as third party content sits with BBC content on BBC branded pages, users are more likely to expect it to have been through a rigorous editorial examination and to comply with BBC editorial standards before being published on our site. Editorial responsibility The person who is editorially responsible for the page on which the feed or embed appears will be responsible for the content from that feed or embed. This principle will apply whether it is a bespoke feed to a single page or a general feed to many pages. We would not normally embed a live feed of video or text unless we had a contractual relationship with the supplier that provides assurances about the content or we could be otherwise confident that the content is appropriate to be shared on our own platforms. Transparency Where we take in content from an external supplier, we should be transparent about it with our users. Attribution should be as close as possible to the content in question. We should provide a clear and easy route for our users to report a mistake or find offensive or inappropriate content on a feed. Embeds Embedded video, for example of a social networking site video player such as YouTube or Vimeo on a BBC page, may be a useful way to display editorially relevant non-BBC content. Even though the content is not under our control it appears to the audience that it is part of our online content. We should therefore make it clear that the embedded video is from a third party site and give the audience a direct route to report to the relevant editorial team any inappropriate content, such as advertising, that might appear on that video. Last updated July 2019 The page will automatically reload. 