Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Swedish chef critical after attack near carnival Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland Ten-month-old girl dies after Tavistock car crash Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two men and woman dead after Audi crashed into pedestrians Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Find your regional news Paris Paralympic Games 2024: The opening ceremony in pictures 'I want my children to remember me competing in a Paralympics' Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Suzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life. Audio, 3 minutesSuzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life Day-to-day guide: Who's up for gold? Latest news and must-see moments Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum. Video, 00:02:02Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? First-look pictures released for new series of Waterloo Road Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Spencer Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor. Video, 00:01:36Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Absolute classics everyone should learn to cook Replace your usual chips with these impressive potato dishes Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Here's why you could be storing your fruit wrong How food halls have managed to become big business. Audio, 26 minutesHow food halls have managed to become big business Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Can building your own home tackle housing crisis? What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Video, 00:06:14What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Why coffee and alcohol make us feel so much worse as we age Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash. Video, 00:06:30Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash NHS launches fresh appeal for blood donors as shortage continues 'I hid chronic pain from loved ones for 25 years' 'Don't follow your dreams': Is this the key to a happy life? 'I played with David Bowie at Live Aid' 12-year-old finds rare Roman gold bracelet on dog walk Photographer unveils extraordinary close-ups of bugs on his doorstep 'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses. Audio, 00:05:10'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Ten skills you might not know you had Tips for the new year from BBC Bitesize Back to school: friendship groups. 00:00:34, play videoBack to school: friendship groups Back to school: organisation hacks. 00:00:47, play videoBack to school: organisation hacks Back to school: school rules. 00:00:35, play videoBack to school: school rules Back to school: making friends. 00:00:43, play videoBack to school: making friends Back to school: bullying advice. 00:00:25, play videoBack to school: bullying advice Back to school: positive routines. 00:00:33, play videoBack to school: positive routines Back to school: peer pressure. 00:00:42, play videoBack to school: peer pressure Back to school: feeling overwhelmed. 00:00:39, play videoBack to school: feeling overwhelmed Back to school: subjects you don't like. 00:00:31, play videoBack to school: subjects you don't like Back to school: disruptive classes. 00:00:28, play videoBack to school: disruptive classes Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Coercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Audio, 6 minutesCoercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Stream and download your favourite BBC podcasts, radio stations and music all in one place New episodes available from September 3rd A complex web of revenge and betrayal Romesh gets to the bottom of infamous celebrity mysteries Getting up close with Africa's magnificent felines Unmissable performances from the festival so far Donna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover. Video, 3 minutesDonna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover Celebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces. Audio, 89 minutesCelebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces Doctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show. Audio, 179 minutesDoctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show Stravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall. Audio, 149 minutesStravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall Britten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever. Audio, 104 minutesBritten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later Britain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Video, 19 minutesBritain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Budget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World. Video, 58 minutesBudget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World Grenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' Audio, 14 minutesGrenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' BBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists. AudioBBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 31 minutesStephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 All audiences are important to the BBC. This page provides links to resources and documents to help users access the BBC's content and to find out about the BBC approach to the development of rich accessible products and services.
 Copyright В© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sign in or create an account to watch, listen and join in Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Two pedestrians and driver die after car crash A driver in his 80s died along with a man and woman in their 60s who were visiting the area. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad What's happening today at the Paralympics? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations GB athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics All you need to know about the Paralympics 'I never blamed rugby for my injury' - David Ross Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast A round-the-world cruise ship has been delayed in Belfast for almost three months. Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges 'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Cut through the spin with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's take - in your inbox every Wednesday. Abba complain about Trump using songs in campaign The Swedish superstars object after hits like The Winner Takes it All were played at a campaign rally. HK journalists found guilty in landmark sedition case Far right is very real threat, says Keir Starmer Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Arrest over two Britons found dead in car in Sweden Spanish actor's son jailed for gruesome murder Hiker rescued after workmates left him on mountain, says search crew Top stories, breaking news, live reporting, and follow news topics that match your interests Watch live on iPlayer Listen to news on Sounds War in Ukraine: Jailed for helping Russia. Audio, 26 minutesWar in Ukraine: Jailed for helping Russia StarmerГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВҳblack holesГўВҖВҷ: What will fill them? Audio, 56 minutesStarmerГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВҳblack holesГўВҖВҷ: What will fill them? Can counter-protests make things worse? Following the recent riots, Adam Fleming investigates Fred again.. captivates the Reading Festival stage Big and small ways of fighting climate change What's life really like with an electronic tag? Can Canada overcome its drug overdose crisis? Gordon Buchanan meets a family of rare gorillas Was last yearГўВҖВҷs DNA data theft racially motivated? Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Follow live text, in-play video clips and radio commentary as England host Sri Lanka in the second Test at Lord's. Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff Napoli sign Chelsea's Lukaku for ГӮВЈ30m Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two men and woman dead after Audi crashed into pedestrians Find your regional news Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sign in or create an account to watch, listen and join in Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Follow live text, in-play video clips and radio commentary as England host Sri Lanka in the second Test at Lord's. Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff Napoli sign Chelsea's Lukaku for ГӮВЈ30m Watch best shots as Root reaches 50. Video, 00:01:00Watch best shots as Root reaches 50 British Olympic sprinter Hinchliffe to turn professional T20 World Cup switch 'doesn't change much' for England How does Champions League draw work? And watch live on BBC County Championship: centuries for Surrey's Burns and Somerset's Abell 22 gold medals on offer - Paris Paralympics day one schedule All you need to know about the Paris Paralympics Full Paralympics schedule GB athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics Global athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics 'Big breakthrough!' Brook falls lbw to Fernando. Video, 00:00:39'Big breakthrough!' Brook falls lbw to Fernando 'He'll be kicking himself' - Duckett caught out after reverse sweep. Video, 00:00:23'He'll be kicking himself' - Duckett caught out after reverse sweep 'Brilliant catch' from De Silva as Pope punished for poor shot. Video, 00:00:25'Brilliant catch' from De Silva as Pope punished for poor shot Kumara removes Lawrence as Sri Lanka make early breakthrough. Video, 00:00:27Kumara removes Lawrence as Sri Lanka make early breakthrough Zagreb's Pjaca scores 'absolute beauty' in Champions League win. Video, 00:00:31Zagreb's Pjaca scores 'absolute beauty' in Champions League win Sutton's predictions v drum & bass legend Adam F BBC Sport football expert Chris Sutton takes on drum & bass legend Adam F to make his predictions for this weekend's Premier League fixtures. McBurnie vs Real Madrid: Scotland striker's new life in Spain Renault staff to strike at plans to end F1 engine programme ParalympicsGB hoping for medals on day one in Paris Liverpool sign Juventus winger Chiesa Evans hoping to back up epic win with Boulter & Draper also on day four NI manager O'Neill hails 'fantastic' Evans Who is Liverpool target Chiesa and why is the fee ГӮВЈ10m? Who is incoming Liverpool winger Federico Chiesa, what can he bring to the Anfield club, and why is he so cheap? Rees-Zammit linked to Jaguars move after Chiefs cut Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations I've a year left on my contract, let's enjoy it - Salah Lacroix set to join Palace in deal worth up to ГӮВЈ18m Newcastle's Trippier announces England retirement Rome hosts penultimate Diamond League event - live on BBC A new Champions League era - all you need to know  Video, 00:01:20A new Champions League era - all you need to know  F1 in 10 Years: The Grand Prix Ball. Video, 00:02:54F1 in 10 Years: The Grand Prix Ball Dodgers star Ohtani's dog 'throws out' first pitch. Video, 00:00:48Dodgers star Ohtani's dog 'throws out' first pitch Watch: Great Britain arrive for Paralympics opening ceremony. Video, 00:00:20Watch: Great Britain arrive for Paralympics opening ceremony Pundits pick best Champions League moments, players & 2024-25 winners. Video, 00:02:34Pundits pick best Champions League moments, players & 2024-25 winners Who manages Barca? Take our Champions League quiz With European football soon returning, it's time for you to put your knowledge to the test! McNair among returning NI players for Nations League Trailblazing referee Welch retires from officiating Bournemouth sign Chelsea goalkeeper Kepa on loan New EFL Cup seeding system keeps apart clubs in Europe Everton's Maupay close to Marseille move Qualifying 'would be everything' Larne have wanted - watch live on BBC Why are buy-back transfer clauses on the rise in football? More clubs are using buy-back clauses in the transfers of young players, but why are they on the rise? Clark breaks WNBA rookie three-point record  Arsenal to move for keeper Garcia - Thursday's gossip Disheartened Dart suffers painful US Open defeat Djokovic into third round after Djere retires injured Sterling & Chilwell 'will not get minutes' if they stay at Chelsea Southampton agree ГӮВЈ25m deal for Arsenal keeper Ramsdale Save the best of iPlayer for later by adding to your watchlist Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris A dark and twisty mystery based on a hit novel Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman Get a range of BBC Sport newsletters delivered straight to your inbox throughout the week Captain Palmer over Salah or Haaland - FPL tips & team of the week Erling Haaland and Mohamed Salah both make the FPL team of the week, but another big-money midfielder is the best captain choice, writes Thomas Woods. Peacock 'ready to fight' for third Paralympic gold How Ali's 'War of the Worlds' started crossover fight trend 'When I win the ball, I'm happy' - who is incoming Man Utd midfielder Ugarte? 'I don't want London to be best Paralympics ever' F1 Q&A: Can Norris still narrow gap to win Championship? Schoolmates and bridesmaids battle for Paralympic gold Paralysed by an ex-boyfriend, Otto rises as Paralympian Tracy Otto's ex-boyfriend thought he had killed her. Instead, Otto used his attack as the launchpad for an extraordinary second act in her life. How a Facebook advert changed a life and the look of a sport East meets west London - the mentor who changed Chelsea East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The air crash and the underdogs - a triumph for a lost generation The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Inside the gym building champions - and community Director of rugby Mather leaves Trailfinders Women Hearts' Shankland a doubt for Plzen play-off - watch live on BBC Scotland Rees-Zammit linked to Jaguars move after Chiefs cut NI manager O'Neill hails 'fantastic' Evans Instagram TikTok Facebook X YouTube Paddy uncovers his family history Prison is the least of their problems The inner workings of the White House This celebrity race is no holiday! ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 This video can not be played Tonight Tonight, the far north will be breezy with variable cloud, clear breaks and scattered showers. The rest of the north will see dry conditions and a few patches of cloud. Clear skies in the south. Friday Tomorrow will see any showers in the north-west dissipate to leave sunny spells and variable cloud for the rest of the day. Showers may move across the far south-east overnight. Light to gentle winds. Outlook for Saturday to Monday Saturday will see sunny spells across most of the UK. Thick cloud will build in across the south-east with the odd shower possible. Warm. Sunday will become cloudier and breezier with the chance of heavy, thundery showers developing later in the day and overnight. Monday will see a band of heavy showers push north-eastwards, leaving sunny spells behind. Millions told to evacuate as Japan hit by one of strongest typhoons in decades Torrential rain and gusts of 252 km per hour (157mph) hit the south of Japan, with four people killed. Weather for the Week Ahead. Video, 00:03:29Weather for the Week Ahead August should end on a dry, fine note for most but how will the first week of September shape up? Louise Lear has the details. UK storm names for 2024/25 released With the next storm season starting on 1 September, a new list of names has been announced - including Ashley, Bert and Conall. Floods in Indian state kill 28 and displace thousands Several rivers and reservoirs are overflowing as water levels have crossed the danger mark. Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm. Video, 00:00:29Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm Lightning flickered through the orange skies at the same time as a rainbow, after a summer storm.
 BBC Weather in association with MeteoGroup, external All times are British Summer Time (Europe/London, GMT+1) unless otherwise stated.
 From the Amazon to the Andes. Famous faces skip the VIP lane on an epic adventure The victim no one believed. A model's kidnapping becomes a media frenzy of doubt Child on the way вҖ“ a man-child at home. Pregnant Gemma and her hapless dad Malcolm bond Revenge runs in the family. A senseless murder in Nottingham reignites old rivalries Get the stories behind the crimes. Discover the cases that gripped Britain
 Save shows to listen to later, subscribe to your favourites and get fresh recommendations everyday. Sign in or Register Live commentary of the 2nd Test The daily news podcast from the BBC A fun and forensic look at fame and all the biggest celebrity stories. Few sibling rivalries have captured the collective imagination quite like the Gallaghers. Vernon Kay is your guide to one of British music's most individual artists. The latest news, insight, analysis and big name guests from the footballing world. The Test Match Special team share insight and analysis. The best and biggest live music moments from Reading and Leeds 2024. Celebrating the music and career of Oasis. The world's greatest classical music festival - stunning performances and collaborations. Celebrating 25 years of Radio 1's world famous Live Lounge - revisit the best covers. Joelah and Keke bring a hour of nostalgic bangers to 1Xtra! Your daily mix of Bollywood, Bhangra, UK garage, R&B, hip-hop and more. Best of Pop icons: Ariana Grande, Harry Styles and Taylor Swift ParalympicsGB x Radio 1 Paracanoe athlete Hope Gordon has you covered with a feel-good workout mix Boot Deals, Surprising Balls & Kit Launches Famously... Winona Winona: 1. The Strangest Things Oasis Oasis Live At Knebworth Oasis 1. Bring It On Down... The Fight On The Ferry
Primary Age 3 to 11 Secondary Age 11 to 16 Careers Skills and jobs Teachers BBC Teach Top tips for students of all ages and their parents, before returning to school. Advice for parents of primary school students Help your child to feel ready for the new term with our year-by-year guides on what to expect when they return to school. My First Day at School - Early Years game Primary school children show us what their day looks like Things to consider on a school visit for a child with SEND Things I wish IГўВҖВҷd known before starting secondary school How to make friends in secondary school Advice for parents of secondary school students Guardians: Defenders of Mathematica - game Crystal Explorers - English game Operation Ouch! Billy Bones and the Snot Zombies - science game Karate Cats Maths - maths game Karate Cats English - English game All maths games All English games All science games All history games All modern foreign language games Join us this summer for weekly activities, games and quizzes to keep you entertained in the holidays. Learn to make crГғВӘpes, identify birds and write an adventure KS1 Summer Holiday Pack - Week 7 Go stargazing, make found sounds and write a sci-fi story KS2 Summer Holiday Pack - Week 7 Learn about growing plants and secret seaside wildlife Summer activity ideas for parents What is inclusive sport and can I play at home with my child? Super Movers for Every Body The monthly AI or real quiz: August 2024 Do you have what it takes to spot the AI celebs from the real ones? Four times football transfer rumours turned out to be fake Sabrina Carpenter: HistoryГўВҖВҷs other child stars who became famous adults Quiz: Can you spot the fake news stories from July 2024? 'ItГўВҖВҷs actually a feeling weГўВҖВҷre trying to reflect' - Interpreting music for deaf audiences Revealed: the top 10 jobs teenagers want What is demure and why is it trending? Operation Ouch! It Takes Guts! - Science game Dance Mat Typing - Computing game Earth Squad, Go! - Science game Numberblocks: See the Amount - game Race Across the Continents - game Explore these fun, free inclusive Paralympic sport resources with follow-along songs and dances. Quiz: How well do you know your Paralympic sports? Activity cards for blind football, boccia and more sports How to get into Paralympic sports What are the benefits of sport for my disabled child? Atomic Labs Divided Islands Planet Planners History Detectives Start coding today with micro:bit! Try some fun activities online to help when using the micro:bits at school. Times tables games, quizzes and songs Learn the times tables from 1-12 with fun, interactive videos and activities. Free flashcards on the Bitesize app! Learn and revise on the go with the Bitesize app on Apple and Android devices. Revision podcasts from Bitesize and BBC Sounds English literature, biology, chemistry and physics podcasts to help you learn and revise. Post-16 learning Videos, quizzes and activities for students of Functional Skills maths and English. Citizenship Discover more about governments, voting and social action. Humanities Geography Learn about change and movement while building your geographical skills. Social Studies History Learn about early pandemics and the Scottish witch trials. Feelings and emotions We all have emotions and we feel different things at different times. Find out why. Maths, English, Science and more... We've got you! Back to school for Darrell and friends Practice science experiments in the lab Mischief and mayhem in the daycare Join Rattus and his historical guests! ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
   
      
      Tips: Anxious going back to school? 
    
     
      
      Quiz: School through Horrible History
    
     
      
      What's in Gwen and Darrell's school bags?
    
     
      
      Create your own school pencil case
    
     
      
      Operation Ouch: Snot Zombies
    
     
      
      Ultimate Swiftie Quiz: Are you ready for it?
    
     
      
      Enter the magical world of Malory Towers
    
     
      
      Secret Agent Codename Generator
    
     
      
      Are you ready for the footy season? 
    
     
      
      Make your own Total Drama Island contestant
    
     
      
      How much do you know about dance?
    
     
      
      Do you know these Greek myths?
    
     
      
      Check out everything Blue Peter
    
     
      
      Apply for Blue Peter badges
    
     
      
      Blue Peter quizzes and games
    
     
      
      Blue Peter's Book Club
    
      WeвҖҷll hide these CBeebies shows for 30 Days. Bring them back! Why did you hide them?
   
      
      Cook up a storm in the My World Kitchen 
    
     
      
      Look after your own pet in this cute game 
    
     
      
      Have a Swashbuckle Adventure 
    
     
      
      It's time to play with Waffle and Friends
    
     
      
      Adding and subtracting with the Numberblocks
    
     
      
      Number Magic Quiz Level 1
    
     
      
      Number Magic Quiz Level 2
    
     
      
      Number Magic Quiz Level 3
    
     
      
      How to plan a Hey Duggee party
    
     
      
      The Busy Day Badge Game
    
     
      
      The Picnic Badge Game
    
     
      
      Play the Hey Duggee carrot quiz
    
     
      
      Match the pairs with Bluey and Bingo
    
     
      
      Which Bluey character are you?
    
     
      
      Bluey Jigsaw
    
     
      
      Play snap with Bluey and Bingo
    
      We'll hide these CBBC shows for 30 days. Bring them back! Why did you hide them?
 Spotted these recipes on social media? Give them a go at home These little bursts of sweet and sour make the perfect addition to everything from pancakes to cheesecake  From gluten-free lasagne to Cajun rice. Minimal washing up  Bank holiday Monday = lazy morning  25/08/2024 24/08/2024 Trellick Episode 15 Vaisakhi Special Vegan recipes bursting with flavour, plus information on vegan ingredients and substitutions and foods to watch out for. These recipes are for those on a 1,200 вҖ“ 1,500 calorie diet. Pick and mix your favourites to keep things exciting. Vegetarian recipes bursting with flavour plus information on ingredients, substitutions and foods to watch out for. Let BBC Food tempt you to more than 3000 recipes, including pancakes, bread and cakes. For healthy recipes that are balanced, varied and a pleasure to eat, let BBC Food show you how. If you're lactose-intolerant or allergic to dairy products, BBC Food's dairy-free dishes will freshen up your repertoire
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Riots show how the UK's far right has changed No single group owned or organised the recent riots - they were bigger than that, says Daniel De Simone. Power, oil and a $450m painting - insiders on the rise of Saudi's Crown Prince Why does the Church of England struggle to deal with child abuse allegations? Starmer will be judged on how he tackles root causes of riots What does science tell us about boxingГўВҖВҷs gender row? What is Elon Musk's game plan? Protests reveal deep-rooted anger, but UK is not at boiling point In one US state, women politicians dominate. What pointers can it offer Kamala Harris? The junior doctors' strikes may be over. But is trouble ahead? Why we might never know the truth about ultra-processed foods We don't know how many people are having babies - and that's a headache for schools Conspiracy theories swirl about geo-engineering, but could it help save the planet? Donald TrumpГўВҖВҷs supporters saw two sides of him. Which one might govern? Unfathomable errors and 'cinnamon bun' strategy: Political end-of-term report cards Bereaved families force law changes - why did it take so long? Why did Bayesian yacht sink in 16 minutes? Audio, 10 minutesWhy did Bayesian yacht sink in 16 minutes? Brexit means reset. Audio, 36 minutesBrexit means reset What Hezbollah wants. Audio, 23 minutesWhat Hezbollah wants Has an ex-IRA prisoner found a missing Army officer's burial site? Audio, 27 minutesHas an ex-IRA prisoner found a missing Army officer's burial site? Bringing education back to Afghan children. Video, 26 minutesBringing education back to Afghan children How the secret Banksy empire works. Video, 25 minutesHow the secret Banksy empire works Mpox: The outbreak. Video, 13 minutesMpox: The outbreak What if I can't read? Video, 16 minutesWhat if I can't read? Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least 10 Palestinians killed in Israeli raids in West Bank At least 10 Palestinians are killed in separate incidents in the north of the territory. World Food Programme halts Gaza staff movements Rescued Israeli pleads for hostage deal with Hamas Israeli settlers are seizing Palestinian land under cover of war - they hope permanently Medic saw 'apocalyptic' scenes during Gaza mission Has Israel taken enough action to prevent alleged incitement to genocide? Namibia blocks ship over Israel war-crime concerns Who are the leaders of Hamas? What is Hezbollah and will it go to war with Israel? Where does Israel get its weapons? What are the historical reasons behind the conflict? Lebanese relief as Hezbollah and Israel seem to step back from brink Israel and Hezbollah say they don't want war - but they are both ready for it Israel-Gaza ceasefire: Is a deal still possible? 'On verge of an explosion': Policeman's killing part of spiralling West Bank violence Risk of regional war hangs over Gaza ceasefire talks Baby contracts Gaza's first case of polio in 25 years Gaza nurse says whole family, including quadruplets, killed in air strike Netanyahu putting politics before Gaza deal, dead hostage's daughter says Lebanese hold their breath as mediators scramble to avert all-out war Confronting violent settlers in the occupied West Bank, together Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Why is Harris bringing Walz to her first major interview?  A guide to Trump's four criminal cases Kamala Harris campaign is light on policy - but that's helped her transform the race How does US electoral college choose presidents? The presidential race is not just Harris v Trump Trump campaign and Arlington Cemetery staff clash at event The campaign is disputing reports of the incident, which stemmed from federal rules on filming military burial sites. Trump faces revised 2020 election interference charges Harris and Walz to sit for first interview of campaign Trump adds ex-Democrats Gabbard and RFK Jr to transition team Trump and Harris spar over muting debate microphones RFK Jr just endorsed Trump. Will it matter in November? Robert F Kennedy Jr suspends campaign and backs Trump The 'blended' family behind Kamala Harris Tim Walz: The ex-football coach and teacher who became Harris's VP pick Royce White: A candidate's controversial path from NBA to Maga Who is Gwen Walz, wife of Harris's VP pick? Why tech bros are turning to Trump Kamala Harris on her journey and hopes for the US. Video, 00:02:42Kamala Harris on her journey and hopes for the US 'That's my dad': Tim Walz's son Gus gives tearful reaction to speech. Video, 00:00:57'That's my dad': Tim Walz's son Gus gives tearful reaction to speech Watch: Oprah and Bill Clinton turn out for Tim Walz's big day. Video, 00:01:53Watch: Oprah and Bill Clinton turn out for Tim Walz's big day What young Democrats want Harris to do if she wins. Video, 00:01:40What young Democrats want Harris to do if she wins 'I wish my mother and Kamala's mother could see us' - Clinton. Video, 00:01:05'I wish my mother and Kamala's mother could see us' - Clinton 'She did a really smart thing': Democratic voters like Harris's pick 'The right move but is it too late?' Democratic voters react Vance 'can only go up': Republican voters applaud VP pick 'Something needs to happen' - Democratic voters on replacing Biden 'I feel terrible for him and America': Voters worry about Biden We're looking for US voters who want to share their views on the election Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Who will still be getting winter fuel payments? How much is the state pension worth now? How much does uni in the UK cost and will I earn more if I go? How much is child benefit worth and who can claim it? Who gets 15 hours of free childcare and how do I apply? What can I do if I can't pay my energy bill? How quickly are prices rising in the UK? Water bills: How much will I have to pay? How can I pay off my debts and what help is available? How much are prices rising for you? Try our calculator When will mortgage rates come down? Five ways to save money on your mortgage Can my landlord put up my rent, keep my deposit or evict me? Mortgage calculator: Will my payments rise? Summer 'really tough for parents on low income' Red-hot rent rises cool but tenants still struggling Mums 'fuming' over 'unrealistic' uniform costs Charity helps struggling owners keep their pets Cafe owner trying to help families over holidays Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's long-range drones using Western tech to hit Russia Western technology and finance are helping Ukraine carry out hundreds of long-range strikes inside Russia. Ukraine to present 'victory plan' to US - Zelensky Massive Russian strikes hit Ukraine for second day Heritage under attack: Ukrainians revive interest in culture Seven killed in 'most massive' Russian air attack, Ukraine says Russian woman's killer released for second time to fight in Ukraine Tributes paid to 'gentle giant' killed in Ukraine Pokrovsk: Ukraine's vital eastern town in Russian sights Ukraine hopes its incursion into Russia changes outcome of war Ukraine's surprise advance into Russia a dilemma for Biden Phone taps, sabotage and an assassination plot: Is Germany in Cold War 2.0? Rosenberg: Ukraine's advance undermines Putin's image as 'Mr Security' Gains in Russian territory shape Ukraine independence celebrations He lost his legs in the war, now heГўВҖВҷs UkraineГўВҖВҷs most desirable man The lonely death of a jailed Russian pianist who opposed war ГўВҖВҳI never worked for the RussiansГўВҖВҷ - punished by Kyiv for being a collaborator Russian priests bless fire trucks as huge blaze continues after Ukraine attack Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Surging seas are coming for us all, warns UN chief Speaking to the BBC at the Pacific Islands Forum, AntГғВіnio Guterres says these islands are the "most vulnerable".  Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Everest's Sherpas fear their homes could wash away Climate Q&A: Population, volcanoes and electric cars Despair as the sea slowly swallows a Kenyan beauty spot Electric 'superhighway' approved between Scotland and England Mature trees offer hope in world of rising emissions  UK getting more hot and more wet days ГўВҖВ“ Met Office World breaks hottest day record twice in a week  Is climate change making hurricanes worse? What's the real distance between Sunak and Starmer on climate? Crossbows and eerie silences ГўВҖВ“ following Antarctic whales for climate change clues Why is the world getting warmer? What does net zero mean? What you can do to reduce carbon emissions Get exclusive insight on the latest climate and environment news from the BBCГўВҖВҷs Climate Editor Justin Rowlatt, delivered to your inbox weekly. Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow UK Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley names first England squad Three injured as car crashes into house Man who threatened to kill Ed Miliband jailed Colum Eastwood resigns as SDLP leader Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Swedish chef critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival 'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009. Video, 00:01:35'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 'I stole to order', ГӮВЈ300-a-day former shoplifter tells BBC. Video, 00:03:05'I stole to order', ГӮВЈ300-a-day former shoplifter tells BBC 'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire. Video, 00:00:41'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire Horizon scandal: 'Cleared 15 years after taking blame to protect mum' Video, 00:01:55Horizon scandal: 'Cleared 15 years after taking blame to protect mum' Remembering Eriksson - England's groundbreaking boss. Video, 00:02:49Remembering Eriksson - England's groundbreaking boss Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow World UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue Israel says it killed five militants hiding in a mosque, on the second day of a major operation. Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Ukraine's long-range drones using Western tech to hit Russia Spanish actor's son jailed for gruesome murder Floods in Indian state kill 28 and displace thousands Nevada politician given life sentence for reporter's murder India approves $8.5bn Reliance-Disney entertainment mega-merger Three dead as Japan hit by one of strongest typhoons in decades Paralympics opening ceremony lights up Paris HK journalists found guilty in landmark sedition case Anger after strangers lock toddler in plane toilet Lion rescued from Ukraine takes first steps outside Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside. Video, 00:00:44Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside Thousands of floating dead fish blanket Greek port. Video, 00:00:38Thousands of floating dead fish blanket Greek port 'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina. Video, 00:00:49'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats. Video, 00:00:38Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Digging riverbeds in Zimbabwe in desperate search for water  Sex abuse allegations rock Indian film industry Three months into global cruise, passengers have not left Belfast Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC The motoring group claims retailers not drivers have benefitted from lower tax on petrol and diesel. Over 2,000 workers apply for Tata Steel redundancy UK government will not fight Rosebank oil field legal challenge AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Power firm pays ГӮВЈ25m penalty over inaccurate data Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Home Office criticised for billions of asylum overspending Thames Water says it needs 59% bill rise to survive Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports 'Hellway' - the new-build estate with no end of snags What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Have supermarkets reached peak self-scan? Defence firms 'need reassuring' that big orders will be long-term Technology of Business CEO Secrets Artificial intelligence New Tech Economy Global cost of living Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lib Dem leader Sir Ed Davey says withdrawing the payment from millions of pensioners is a "big mistake". Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM Far right is very real threat, says Keir Starmer UK government will not fight Rosebank oil field legal challenge Starmer confirms smoking ban extension being considered. Video, 00:01:10Starmer confirms smoking ban extension being considered Starmer: Reset with EU will not reverse Brexit Henry Zeffman: PM tries to define his Europe 'reset' Proposed smoking ban will see death knell of pub - Farage. Video, 00:01:20Proposed smoking ban will see death knell of pub - Farage Home Office criticised for billions of asylum overspending Disgraced politicians may get kicked out of Senedd Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Help with energy bills urged for struggling pensioners What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Henry Zeffman: Starmer will keep on attacking the Tories How much are gas and electricity bills going up this winter? Why is Thames Water in so much trouble? Who is in the running for the Scottish Tory leadership? Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Culture Abba complain about Trump using songs in campaign The Swedish superstars object after hits like The Winner Takes it All were played at a campaign rally. K-pop singer leaves boy band over sexual crime accusation Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Star Wars Outlaws maker defends glitches in 'complex' game Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Scots music stars warn of 'catastrophe' over arts funding cuts Rings of Power star slipped Welsh word into show Harry Styles viaduct protected from 'well-meaning damage' Sex abuse allegations rock Indian film industry Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Nevada politician given life sentence for reporter's murder Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? Why do we care so much about Oasis? How Winona Ryder conquered Hollywood... and could be about to again Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Meet Cassyette: The genre-defying rock star who brought screamcore to Eurovision 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009. Video, 00:01:35'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 What would it take to get Oasis back together? ГўВҖВ“ Liam asked in 2016. Video, 00:01:08What would it take to get Oasis back together? ГўВҖВ“ Liam asked in 2016 Oasis reunion teased after Liam Gallagher Reading set. Video, 00:00:14Oasis reunion teased after Liam Gallagher Reading set Jack Lowden: 'As a shy kid, I felt at home on stage' Video, 00:01:31Jack Lowden: 'As a shy kid, I felt at home on stage' Watch: Edinburgh Fringe magicians perform 'really freaky' trick. Video, 00:01:13Watch: Edinburgh Fringe magicians perform 'really freaky' trick Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes The islands are the windiest part of the UK, which means it will be rare for the turbines not to be spinning. Baby boom prompts call to boost wild beaver population Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Watch out for Ashley but never fear Yvonne SpaceX delays first private spacewalk mission The people working to help Scotland's bats bounce back Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Why the skies turned red over the UK this weekend Brian May argues for better farm hygiene to protect badgers UK military satellite launches to boost space power Scottish isles may solve mystery of 'Snowball Earth' Watch: The Northern Lights seen from space. Video, 00:01:00Watch: The Northern Lights seen from space Reservoir of liquid water found deep in Martian rocks  Europe's Ariane-6 rocket blasts off on maiden flight Satellite captures first-of-a-kind cloud image The Sun has entered a ГўВҖВҳbusy periodГўВҖВҷ Musk's SpaceX to destroy retired space station Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Parents warned of back-to-school measles surge Children should be up to date with all vaccinations to protect them and other people, officials say. Ambulances ГўВҖВҳwaste vital timeГўВҖВҷ on prison call-outs Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM Experts want inquiry delay over Letby evidence concerns Protect kids from vapes, doctors urge government NHS warns of continued short supply of blood  'The pain was excruciating' after mesh implants Does eating meat raise the risk of diabetes? Research finds drones can deliver blood safely Mpox not new Covid and can be stopped, expert says Will the NHS ever pay for the new era of dementia drugs? How worried should we be about mpox? Infected blood victims could get ГӮВЈ2m compensation What is the infected blood scandal? 'Blood compensation comes too late for my husband' Children used as 'guinea pigs' in clinical trials Infected blood inquiry: Five things we have learned What is mpox and how is it spread? The junior doctors' strikes may be over. But is trouble ahead? Slimming jabs: 'I thought my body was shutting down' UV levels explained - how do I protect myself? Are weight-loss injections the answer to obesity? How the UK planned for the wrong pandemic What is the UK Covid inquiry and what powers does it have? Covid inquiry: The UK pandemic in numbers Ex-medical officer close to tears over Covid deaths Five takeaways from Johnson at the Covid inquiry Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Ellie Boatman: How rugby helped me with eating disorder. Audio, 4 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Ellie Boatman: How rugby helped me with eating disorder Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Erin Kennedy: My oncologists are coming to Paris. Audio, 4 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Erin Kennedy: My oncologists are coming to Paris How Dame Deborah James helped save a mum's life. Video, 00:02:11How Dame Deborah James helped save a mum's life Can health secretary name NHS trusts performing well? Video, 00:01:59Can health secretary name NHS trusts performing well? 'I embrace my alopecia, but IГўВҖВҷd love my old hair backГўВҖВҷ Video, 00:01:39'I embrace my alopecia, but IГўВҖВҷd love my old hair backГўВҖВҷ Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Students face uncertainty in BTec funding 'mess' Schools and colleges in England say a lack of clarity on the future of vocational courses is a "minefield". Rise in pupils educated outside mainstream schools in Wales Bristol University students to miss freshers' week More cuts in Scotland will 'break the children or teachers - or both' Empathy can be taught at school, study suggests Infant school hit by cyber attack Students urged to top up vaccines before term time Tearful results day... but for all the right reasons. 00:00:19, play videoTearful results day... but for all the right reasons Great-grandad passes GCSE English aged 73! 00:00:23, play videoGreat-grandad passes GCSE English aged 73! Emotions run high for student who did better than expected. 00:00:26, play videoEmotions run high for student who did better than expected Ringing your dad with a BIG surprise. 00:00:27, play videoRinging your dad with a BIG surprise A GCSE rap from the Rapping Science Teacher. 00:00:22, play videoA GCSE rap from the Rapping Science Teacher 'I was expecting a couple of fails but I passed' 00:00:17, play video'I was expecting a couple of fails but I passed' 'Very impressive!' - Cardiff student reveals results. 00:00:29, play video'Very impressive!' - Cardiff student reveals results 'I'm proudest of my 5 in Spanish' 00:00:24, play video'I'm proudest of my 5 in Spanish' 'Apprenticeship will give me a well-paid job' 00:00:31, play video'Apprenticeship will give me a well-paid job' 'They call me Mr Consistent for a reason' 00:00:22, play video'They call me Mr Consistent for a reason' 'I got straight 9s' 00:00:37, play video'I got straight 9s' 'Not the grades I wanted but I don't mind' 00:00:26, play video'Not the grades I wanted but I don't mind' 'All the hard work has paid off' 00:00:24, play video'All the hard work has paid off' 'Three, two, one!' - The countdown to results. 00:00:22, play video'Three, two, one!' - The countdown to results Celebs' good luck messages. 00:00:50, play videoCelebs' good luck messages Do I need to pay to resit exams? 00:00:25, play videoDo I need to pay to resit exams? 'GCSEs aren't your whole life' - meet the Brickies. 00:00:45, play video'GCSEs aren't your whole life' - meet the Brickies Results day tips from other students. 00:01:03, play videoResults day tips from other students Ami Charlize on dealing with worrying. 00:00:40, play videoAmi Charlize on dealing with worrying Apprenticeships - fact or fiction? 00:00:49, play videoApprenticeships - fact or fiction? Growing up with dyslexia: 'What if I can't read?' Video, 00:02:27Growing up with dyslexia: 'What if I can't read?' Four takeaways from 2024's GCSE results 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Five key takeaways from 2024's A-level results What is an apprenticeship and how do you get one? Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow In Pictures WW2 camera used to photograph dig near ancient fort A student brought her grandfather's camera to the latest excavations at Fife's East Lomond hill. Whoops, blooms and blue moons: Africa's top shots Badgers, birds and bridges star in photo exhibition Why the skies turned red over the UK this weekend In Pictures: The Perseid meteor shower Ping pong prowess to Red Sea bubbles: Africa's top shots Haunting portrait of young storm victim wins photo award ГўВҖВҳMy day in a Liverpool alley with 35 drag queensГўВҖВҷ Trump rally descends into screams and disarray as shots ring out How pioneering UK photojournalists captured change A photographer's 11-day trek to flee war-torn Sudan  Artist paints British landmarks on teabags 18-24 August 2024 10 - 17 August 3 - 9 August 2024 27 July - 2 August 2024 20-26 July 2024 Your pictures on the theme of 'summertime' Your pictures on the theme of 'in the kitchen' We set the theme, you take the pictures Your pictures on the theme of 'time'  Your pictures on the theme of 'shadows' Ghana's first photojournalist turns 95. Video, 00:02:25Ghana's first photojournalist turns 95 'Why I'm taking pictures of the bins in my town' Video, 00:01:07'Why I'm taking pictures of the bins in my town' Photographers create Exmoor photo library. Video, 00:01:14Photographers create Exmoor photo library Photographer brings famous book of poetry to life. Video, 00:03:00Photographer brings famous book of poetry to life The stunning drone footage teaching us about sharks. Video, 00:01:44The stunning drone footage teaching us about sharks Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Star Wars Outlaws maker defends glitches in 'complex' game Creative director Julian Gerighty feels the early bugs are partly a product of their ambition for the game. Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Amy Winehouse Live Lounge performance voted best of 25 years Rapper A$AP Rocky apologises to fans for album delay It Ends With Us star says female cast 'vilified' Seven things we learned from Gamescom opening night Rachel Chinouriri cancels US shows over costs Singer Chappell Roan calls out fans' 'creepy behaviour' New musical from creators of Six: This show is for us UK garage music at 30: ItГўВҖВҷs not dying, but a way of life Opening for Taylor Swift: 'I feel like the coolest person' Respected gaming magazine praised after sudden closure Warning over antibiotic-resistant gonorrhoea cases Disney star arrested at theme park over 'domestic incident' Taking TikTok comedy to the Edinburgh Fringe Emotional Miley becomes youngest-ever Disney Legend Five crazy weeks as an Olympic chauffeur Rapper Travis Scott released without charge in Paris Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow BBC Verify Kamala Harris convention speech fact-checked BBC Verify has looked into some of the claims made by Kamala Harris at the DNC in Chicago.
 BBC Verify analyses footage of Ukraine's incursion into Russia. Video, 00:02:53BBC Verify analyses footage of Ukraine's incursion into Russia Six Kamala Harris claims fact-checked Trump falsely claims Harris crowd was faked Fact-checking claims about Tim WalzГўВҖВҷs military record Trump's chat with Musk on X fact-checked The real story of the news website accused of fuelling riots BBC Verify analyses Manchester Airport incident footage. Video, 00:02:46BBC Verify analyses Manchester Airport incident footage Southport stabbing: How the knife attack unfolded. Video, 00:01:57Southport stabbing: How the knife attack unfolded BBC Verify analyses attacks on the French railway system. Video, 00:02:29BBC Verify analyses attacks on the French railway system The missed warnings ahead of the Trump attack. Video, 00:02:14The missed warnings ahead of the Trump attack BBC Verify looks at evidence linking Russia to Kyiv hospital strike. Video, 00:02:18BBC Verify looks at evidence linking Russia to Kyiv hospital strike Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Kimberley Ann Hawkins stole Neil Shadwick's mobility scooter, leaving him to die in the cold. Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Preparing for the Paralympics with sweat Hoovers and heat chambers. Audio, 27 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Preparing for the Paralympics with sweat Hoovers and heat chambers First ever Paralympics fan zones come to London What's happening and when at the Paris Paralympics? All you need to know about the Paris Paralympics Paralympian targets two more golds at Paris games Disabled woman uses bed built for her when she was 8 Access All: Disability News and Mental Health Global athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics Will the NHS ever pay for the new era of dementia drugs? Tributes to MND champion who created 'vital' Euan's Guide How Ed Jackson went from spinal injury to mountain climbing Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 32 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Adam Hills and Dan Tiernan. Audio, 30 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Adam Hills and Dan Tiernan Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Matt Forde and Abby Cook. Audio, 28 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Matt Forde and Abby Cook Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Accessible housing: ГўВҖВҳI lived in a hotel for 17 monthsГўВҖВҷ Audio, 22 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Accessible housing: ГўВҖВҳI lived in a hotel for 17 monthsГўВҖВҷ Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. ГўВҖВҳI was desperateГўВҖВҷ: The ads for unlicensed ADHD meds getting banned. Audio, 27 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health ГўВҖВҳI was desperateГўВҖВҷ: The ads for unlicensed ADHD meds getting banned Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The BBC News app is available for Android and iOS devices With the latest news and analysis from our journalists around the world and the unique human stories behind current events, we've got the best of our journalism in one place on the BBC News app. Click here, external to download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here, external to download the BBC News app from Google Play for Android devices. If you're outside the UK, you can download the BBC app here, external. Features include:  News, features and analysis Read top stories and breaking news Watch live and developing news coverage Get news and weather local to you Follow news that's important to you Get alerts for top stories We would like to know what you think of the new app - click here to give us your feedback. Depending on the contract you have, data charges may apply for accessing the internet on your mobile device. If you are not sure about the potential charges, please ask your mobile network provider. You may find some costs are included in your existing price plan or that you can opt for a data package that gives reduced charges for accessing the internet. The BBC does not charge you to access mobile content. Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Swedish chef critical after attack near carnival Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland Ten-month-old girl dies after Tavistock car crash Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two men and woman dead after Audi crashed into pedestrians Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Find your regional news Paris Paralympic Games 2024: The opening ceremony in pictures 'I want my children to remember me competing in a Paralympics' Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Suzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life. Audio, 3 minutesSuzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life Day-to-day guide: Who's up for gold? Latest news and must-see moments Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum. Video, 00:02:02Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? First-look pictures released for new series of Waterloo Road Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Spencer Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor. Video, 00:01:36Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Absolute classics everyone should learn to cook Replace your usual chips with these impressive potato dishes Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Here's why you could be storing your fruit wrong How food halls have managed to become big business. Audio, 26 minutesHow food halls have managed to become big business Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Can building your own home tackle housing crisis? What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Video, 00:06:14What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Why coffee and alcohol make us feel so much worse as we age Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash. Video, 00:06:30Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash NHS launches fresh appeal for blood donors as shortage continues 'I hid chronic pain from loved ones for 25 years' 'Don't follow your dreams': Is this the key to a happy life? 'I played with David Bowie at Live Aid' 12-year-old finds rare Roman gold bracelet on dog walk Photographer unveils extraordinary close-ups of bugs on his doorstep 'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses. Audio, 00:05:10'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Ten skills you might not know you had Tips for the new year from BBC Bitesize Back to school: friendship groups. 00:00:34, play videoBack to school: friendship groups Back to school: organisation hacks. 00:00:47, play videoBack to school: organisation hacks Back to school: school rules. 00:00:35, play videoBack to school: school rules Back to school: making friends. 00:00:43, play videoBack to school: making friends Back to school: bullying advice. 00:00:25, play videoBack to school: bullying advice Back to school: positive routines. 00:00:33, play videoBack to school: positive routines Back to school: peer pressure. 00:00:42, play videoBack to school: peer pressure Back to school: feeling overwhelmed. 00:00:39, play videoBack to school: feeling overwhelmed Back to school: subjects you don't like. 00:00:31, play videoBack to school: subjects you don't like Back to school: disruptive classes. 00:00:28, play videoBack to school: disruptive classes Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Coercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Audio, 6 minutesCoercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Stream and download your favourite BBC podcasts, radio stations and music all in one place New episodes available from September 3rd A complex web of revenge and betrayal Romesh gets to the bottom of infamous celebrity mysteries Getting up close with Africa's magnificent felines Unmissable performances from the festival so far Donna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover. Video, 3 minutesDonna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover Celebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces. Audio, 89 minutesCelebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces Doctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show. Audio, 179 minutesDoctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show Stravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall. Audio, 149 minutesStravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall Britten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever. Audio, 104 minutesBritten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later Britain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Video, 19 minutesBritain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Budget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World. Video, 58 minutesBudget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World Grenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' Audio, 14 minutesGrenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' BBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists. AudioBBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 31 minutesStephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Swedish chef critical after attack near carnival Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland Ten-month-old girl dies after Tavistock car crash Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two men and woman dead after Audi crashed into pedestrians Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Find your regional news Paris Paralympic Games 2024: The opening ceremony in pictures 'I want my children to remember me competing in a Paralympics' Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Suzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life. Audio, 3 minutesSuzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life Day-to-day guide: Who's up for gold? Latest news and must-see moments Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum. Video, 00:02:02Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? First-look pictures released for new series of Waterloo Road Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Spencer Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor. Video, 00:01:36Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Absolute classics everyone should learn to cook Replace your usual chips with these impressive potato dishes Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Here's why you could be storing your fruit wrong How food halls have managed to become big business. Audio, 26 minutesHow food halls have managed to become big business Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Can building your own home tackle housing crisis? What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Video, 00:06:14What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Why coffee and alcohol make us feel so much worse as we age Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash. Video, 00:06:30Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash NHS launches fresh appeal for blood donors as shortage continues 'I hid chronic pain from loved ones for 25 years' 'Don't follow your dreams': Is this the key to a happy life? 'I played with David Bowie at Live Aid' 12-year-old finds rare Roman gold bracelet on dog walk Photographer unveils extraordinary close-ups of bugs on his doorstep 'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses. Audio, 00:05:10'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Ten skills you might not know you had Tips for the new year from BBC Bitesize Back to school: friendship groups. 00:00:34, play videoBack to school: friendship groups Back to school: organisation hacks. 00:00:47, play videoBack to school: organisation hacks Back to school: school rules. 00:00:35, play videoBack to school: school rules Back to school: making friends. 00:00:43, play videoBack to school: making friends Back to school: bullying advice. 00:00:25, play videoBack to school: bullying advice Back to school: positive routines. 00:00:33, play videoBack to school: positive routines Back to school: peer pressure. 00:00:42, play videoBack to school: peer pressure Back to school: feeling overwhelmed. 00:00:39, play videoBack to school: feeling overwhelmed Back to school: subjects you don't like. 00:00:31, play videoBack to school: subjects you don't like Back to school: disruptive classes. 00:00:28, play videoBack to school: disruptive classes Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Coercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Audio, 6 minutesCoercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Stream and download your favourite BBC podcasts, radio stations and music all in one place New episodes available from September 3rd A complex web of revenge and betrayal Romesh gets to the bottom of infamous celebrity mysteries Getting up close with Africa's magnificent felines Unmissable performances from the festival so far Donna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover. Video, 3 minutesDonna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover Celebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces. Audio, 89 minutesCelebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces Doctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show. Audio, 179 minutesDoctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show Stravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall. Audio, 149 minutesStravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall Britten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever. Audio, 104 minutesBritten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later Britain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Video, 19 minutesBritain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Budget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World. Video, 58 minutesBudget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World Grenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' Audio, 14 minutesGrenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' BBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists. AudioBBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 31 minutesStephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 All audiences are important to the BBC. This page provides links to resources and documents to help users access the BBC's content and to find out about the BBC approach to the development of rich accessible products and services.
 Copyright В© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 Copyright В© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sign in or create an account to watch, listen and join in Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Marr 'ignored' offer to reunite The Smiths for tour next year, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Two pedestrians and driver dead after car crash A driver in his 80s died along with a man and woman in their 60s who were visiting the area. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' offer to reunite The Smiths for tour next year, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' offer to reunite The Smiths for tour next year, says Morrissey Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Chef from Sweden critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley calls up four new players as he names his first England squad What's happening today at the Paralympics? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations GB athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics All you need to know about the Paralympics 'I never blamed rugby for my injury' - David Ross Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast A round-the-world cruise ship has been delayed in Belfast for almost three months. Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges 'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Cut through the spin with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's take - in your inbox every Wednesday. Abba complain about Trump using songs in campaign The Swedish superstars object after hits like The Winner Takes it All were played at a campaign rally. HK journalists found guilty in landmark sedition case Far right is very real threat, says Keir Starmer Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Arrest over two Britons found dead in car in Sweden Spanish actor's son jailed for gruesome murder Hiker rescued after workmates left him on mountain, says search crew Top stories, breaking news, live reporting, and follow news topics that match your interests Watch live on iPlayer Listen to news on Sounds War in Ukraine: Jailed for helping Russia. Audio, 26 minutesWar in Ukraine: Jailed for helping Russia StarmerГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВҳblack holesГўВҖВҷ: What will fill them? Audio, 56 minutesStarmerГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВҳblack holesГўВҖВҷ: What will fill them? Can counter-protests make things worse? Following the recent riots, Adam Fleming investigates Fred again.. captivates the Reading Festival stage Big and small ways of fighting climate change What's life really like with an electronic tag? Can Canada overcome its drug overdose crisis? Gordon Buchanan meets a family of rare gorillas Was last yearГўВҖВҷs DNA data theft racially motivated? Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Follow live text, in-play video clips and radio commentary as England host Sri Lanka in the second Test at Lord's. Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff Napoli sign Chelsea's Lukaku for ГӮВЈ30m Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two pedestrians and driver dead after car crash Find your regional news Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sign in or create an account to watch, listen and join in Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Follow live text, in-play video clips and radio commentary as England host Sri Lanka in the second Test at Lord's. Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff Napoli sign Chelsea's Lukaku for ГӮВЈ30m Watch best shots as Root reaches 50. Video, 00:01:00Watch best shots as Root reaches 50 British Olympic sprinter Hinchliffe to turn professional T20 World Cup switch 'doesn't change much' for England How does Champions League draw work? And watch live on BBC County Championship: centuries for Surrey's Burns and Somerset's Abell 22 gold medals on offer - Paris Paralympics day one schedule All you need to know about the Paris Paralympics Full Paralympics schedule GB athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics Global athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics 'Big breakthrough!' Brook falls lbw to Fernando. Video, 00:00:39'Big breakthrough!' Brook falls lbw to Fernando 'He'll be kicking himself' - Duckett caught out after reverse sweep. Video, 00:00:23'He'll be kicking himself' - Duckett caught out after reverse sweep 'Brilliant catch' from De Silva as Pope punished for poor shot. Video, 00:00:25'Brilliant catch' from De Silva as Pope punished for poor shot Kumara removes Lawrence as Sri Lanka make early breakthrough. Video, 00:00:27Kumara removes Lawrence as Sri Lanka make early breakthrough Zagreb's Pjaca scores 'absolute beauty' in Champions League win. Video, 00:00:31Zagreb's Pjaca scores 'absolute beauty' in Champions League win Sutton's predictions v drum & bass legend Adam F BBC Sport football expert Chris Sutton takes on drum & bass legend Adam F to make his predictions for this weekend's Premier League fixtures. McBurnie vs Real Madrid: Scotland striker's new life in Spain Renault staff to strike at plans to end F1 engine programme ParalympicsGB hoping for medals on day one in Paris Liverpool sign Juventus winger Chiesa Evans hoping to back up epic win with Boulter & Draper also on day four NI manager O'Neill hails 'fantastic' Evans Who is Liverpool target Chiesa and why is the fee ГӮВЈ10m? Who is incoming Liverpool winger Federico Chiesa, what can he bring to the Anfield club, and why is he so cheap? Rees-Zammit linked to Jaguars move after Chiefs cut Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations I've a year left on my contract, let's enjoy it - Salah Lacroix set to join Palace in deal worth up to ГӮВЈ18m Newcastle's Trippier announces England retirement Rome hosts penultimate Diamond League event - live on BBC A new Champions League era - all you need to know  Video, 00:01:20A new Champions League era - all you need to know  F1 in 10 Years: The Grand Prix Ball. Video, 00:02:54F1 in 10 Years: The Grand Prix Ball Dodgers star Ohtani's dog 'throws out' first pitch. Video, 00:00:48Dodgers star Ohtani's dog 'throws out' first pitch Watch: Great Britain arrive for Paralympics opening ceremony. Video, 00:00:20Watch: Great Britain arrive for Paralympics opening ceremony Pundits pick best Champions League moments, players & 2024-25 winners. Video, 00:02:34Pundits pick best Champions League moments, players & 2024-25 winners Who manages Barca? Take our Champions League quiz With European football soon returning, it's time for you to put your knowledge to the test! McNair among returning NI players for Nations League Trailblazing referee Welch retires from officiating Bournemouth sign Chelsea goalkeeper Kepa on loan New EFL Cup seeding system keeps apart clubs in Europe Everton's Maupay close to Marseille move Qualifying 'would be everything' Larne have wanted - watch live on BBC Why are buy-back transfer clauses on the rise in football? More clubs are using buy-back clauses in the transfers of young players, but why are they on the rise? Clark breaks WNBA rookie three-point record  Arsenal to move for keeper Garcia - Thursday's gossip Disheartened Dart suffers painful US Open defeat Djokovic into third round after Djere retires injured Sterling & Chilwell 'will not get minutes' if they stay at Chelsea Southampton agree ГӮВЈ25m deal for Arsenal keeper Ramsdale Save the best of iPlayer for later by adding to your watchlist Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris A dark and twisty mystery based on a hit novel Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman Get a range of BBC Sport newsletters delivered straight to your inbox throughout the week Captain Palmer over Salah or Haaland - FPL tips & team of the week Erling Haaland and Mohamed Salah both make the FPL team of the week, but another big-money midfielder is the best captain choice, writes Thomas Woods. Peacock 'ready to fight' for third Paralympic gold How Ali's 'War of the Worlds' started crossover fight trend 'When I win the ball, I'm happy' - who is incoming Man Utd midfielder Ugarte? 'I don't want London to be best Paralympics ever' F1 Q&A: Can Norris still narrow gap to win Championship? Schoolmates and bridesmaids battle for Paralympic gold Paralysed by an ex-boyfriend, Otto rises as Paralympian Tracy Otto's ex-boyfriend thought he had killed her. Instead, Otto used his attack as the launchpad for an extraordinary second act in her life. How a Facebook advert changed a life and the look of a sport East meets west London - the mentor who changed Chelsea East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The air crash and the underdogs - a triumph for a lost generation The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Inside the gym building champions - and community Director of rugby Mather leaves Trailfinders Women Hearts' Shankland a doubt for Plzen play-off - watch live on BBC Scotland Rees-Zammit linked to Jaguars move after Chiefs cut NI manager O'Neill hails 'fantastic' Evans Instagram TikTok Facebook X YouTube Paddy uncovers his family history Prison is the least of their problems The inner workings of the White House This celebrity race is no holiday! ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 This video can not be played Tonight Tonight, the far north will be breezy with variable cloud, clear breaks and scattered showers. The rest of the north will see dry conditions and a few patches of cloud. Clear skies in the south. Friday Tomorrow will see any showers in the north-west dissipate to leave sunny spells and variable cloud for the rest of the day. Showers may move across the far south-east overnight. Light to gentle winds. Outlook for Saturday to Monday Saturday will see sunny spells across most of the UK. Thick cloud will build in across the south-east with the odd shower possible. Warm. Sunday will become cloudier and breezier with the chance of heavy, thundery showers developing later in the day and overnight. Monday will see a band of heavy showers push north-eastwards, leaving sunny spells behind. Millions told to evacuate as Japan hit by one of strongest typhoons in decades Torrential rain and gusts of 252 km per hour (157mph) hit the south of Japan, with four people killed. Weather for the Week Ahead. Video, 00:03:29Weather for the Week Ahead August should end on a dry, fine note for most but how will the first week of September shape up? Louise Lear has the details. UK storm names for 2024/25 released With the next storm season starting on 1 September, a new list of names has been announced - including Ashley, Bert and Conall. Floods in Indian state kill 28 and displace thousands Several rivers and reservoirs are overflowing as water levels have crossed the danger mark. Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm. Video, 00:00:29Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm Lightning flickered through the orange skies at the same time as a rainbow, after a summer storm.
 BBC Weather in association with MeteoGroup, external All times are British Summer Time (Europe/London, GMT+1) unless otherwise stated.
 From the Amazon to the Andes. Famous faces skip the VIP lane on an epic adventure The victim no one believed. A model's kidnapping becomes a media frenzy of doubt Child on the way вҖ“ a man-child at home. Pregnant Gemma and her hapless dad Malcolm bond Revenge runs in the family. A senseless murder in Nottingham reignites old rivalries Get the stories behind the crimes. Discover the cases that gripped Britain
 Save shows to listen to later, subscribe to your favourites and get fresh recommendations everyday. Sign in or Register Live commentary of the 2nd Test The daily news podcast from the BBC A fun and forensic look at fame and all the biggest celebrity stories. Few sibling rivalries have captured the collective imagination quite like the Gallaghers. Vernon Kay is your guide to one of British music's most individual artists. The latest news, insight, analysis and big name guests from the footballing world. The Test Match Special team share insight and analysis. The best and biggest live music moments from Reading and Leeds 2024. Celebrating the music and career of Oasis. The world's greatest classical music festival - stunning performances and collaborations. Celebrating 25 years of Radio 1's world famous Live Lounge - revisit the best covers. Joelah and Keke bring a hour of nostalgic bangers to 1Xtra! Your daily mix of Bollywood, Bhangra, UK garage, R&B, hip-hop and more. Best of Pop icons: Ariana Grande, Harry Styles and Taylor Swift ParalympicsGB x Radio 1 Paracanoe athlete Hope Gordon has you covered with a feel-good workout mix Boot Deals, Surprising Balls & Kit Launches Famously... Winona Winona: 1. The Strangest Things Oasis Oasis Live At Knebworth Oasis 1. Bring It On Down... The Fight On The Ferry
Primary Age 3 to 11 Secondary Age 11 to 16 Careers Skills and jobs Teachers BBC Teach Top tips for students of all ages and their parents, before returning to school. Advice for parents of primary school students Help your child to feel ready for the new term with our year-by-year guides on what to expect when they return to school. My First Day at School - Early Years game Primary school children show us what their day looks like Things to consider on a school visit for a child with SEND Things I wish IГўВҖВҷd known before starting secondary school How to make friends in secondary school Advice for parents of secondary school students Guardians: Defenders of Mathematica - game Crystal Explorers - English game Operation Ouch! Billy Bones and the Snot Zombies - science game Karate Cats Maths - maths game Karate Cats English - English game All maths games All English games All science games All history games All modern foreign language games Join us this summer for weekly activities, games and quizzes to keep you entertained in the holidays. Learn to make crГғВӘpes, identify birds and write an adventure KS1 Summer Holiday Pack - Week 7 Go stargazing, make found sounds and write a sci-fi story KS2 Summer Holiday Pack - Week 7 Learn about growing plants and secret seaside wildlife Summer activity ideas for parents What is inclusive sport and can I play at home with my child? Super Movers for Every Body The monthly AI or real quiz: August 2024 Do you have what it takes to spot the AI celebs from the real ones? Four times football transfer rumours turned out to be fake Sabrina Carpenter: HistoryГўВҖВҷs other child stars who became famous adults Quiz: Can you spot the fake news stories from July 2024? 'ItГўВҖВҷs actually a feeling weГўВҖВҷre trying to reflect' - Interpreting music for deaf audiences Revealed: the top 10 jobs teenagers want What is demure and why is it trending? Operation Ouch! It Takes Guts! - Science game Dance Mat Typing - Computing game Earth Squad, Go! - Science game Numberblocks: See the Amount - game Race Across the Continents - game Explore these fun, free inclusive Paralympic sport resources with follow-along songs and dances. Quiz: How well do you know your Paralympic sports? Activity cards for blind football, boccia and more sports How to get into Paralympic sports What are the benefits of sport for my disabled child? Atomic Labs Divided Islands Planet Planners History Detectives Start coding today with micro:bit! Try some fun activities online to help when using the micro:bits at school. Times tables games, quizzes and songs Learn the times tables from 1-12 with fun, interactive videos and activities. Free flashcards on the Bitesize app! Learn and revise on the go with the Bitesize app on Apple and Android devices. Revision podcasts from Bitesize and BBC Sounds English literature, biology, chemistry and physics podcasts to help you learn and revise. Post-16 learning Videos, quizzes and activities for students of Functional Skills maths and English. Citizenship Discover more about governments, voting and social action. Humanities Geography Learn about change and movement while building your geographical skills. Social Studies History Learn about early pandemics and the Scottish witch trials. Feelings and emotions We all have emotions and we feel different things at different times. Find out why. Maths, English, Science and more... We've got you! Back to school for Darrell and friends Practice science experiments in the lab Mischief and mayhem in the daycare Join Rattus and his historical guests! ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
   
      
      Tips: Anxious going back to school? 
    
     
      
      Quiz: School through Horrible History
    
     
      
      What's in Gwen and Darrell's school bags?
    
     
      
      Create your own school pencil case
    
     
      
      Operation Ouch: Snot Zombies
    
     
      
      Ultimate Swiftie Quiz: Are you ready for it?
    
     
      
      Enter the magical world of Malory Towers
    
     
      
      Secret Agent Codename Generator
    
     
      
      Are you ready for the footy season? 
    
     
      
      Make your own Total Drama Island contestant
    
     
      
      How much do you know about dance?
    
     
      
      Do you know these Greek myths?
    
     
      
      Check out everything Blue Peter
    
     
      
      Apply for Blue Peter badges
    
     
      
      Blue Peter quizzes and games
    
     
      
      Blue Peter's Book Club
    
      WeвҖҷll hide these CBeebies shows for 30 Days. Bring them back! Why did you hide them?
   
      
      Cook up a storm in the My World Kitchen 
    
     
      
      Look after your own pet in this cute game 
    
     
      
      Have a Swashbuckle Adventure 
    
     
      
      It's time to play with Waffle and Friends
    
     
      
      Adding and subtracting with the Numberblocks
    
     
      
      Number Magic Quiz Level 1
    
     
      
      Number Magic Quiz Level 2
    
     
      
      Number Magic Quiz Level 3
    
     
      
      How to plan a Hey Duggee party
    
     
      
      The Busy Day Badge Game
    
     
      
      The Picnic Badge Game
    
     
      
      Play the Hey Duggee carrot quiz
    
     
      
      Match the pairs with Bluey and Bingo
    
     
      
      Which Bluey character are you?
    
     
      
      Bluey Jigsaw
    
     
      
      Play snap with Bluey and Bingo
    
      We'll hide these CBBC shows for 30 days. Bring them back! Why did you hide them?
 Spotted these recipes on social media? Give them a go at home These little bursts of sweet and sour make the perfect addition to everything from pancakes to cheesecake  From gluten-free lasagne to Cajun rice. Minimal washing up  Bank holiday Monday = lazy morning  25/08/2024 24/08/2024 Trellick Episode 15 Vaisakhi Special Vegan recipes bursting with flavour, plus information on vegan ingredients and substitutions and foods to watch out for. These recipes are for those on a 1,200 вҖ“ 1,500 calorie diet. Pick and mix your favourites to keep things exciting. Vegetarian recipes bursting with flavour plus information on ingredients, substitutions and foods to watch out for. Let BBC Food tempt you to more than 3000 recipes, including pancakes, bread and cakes. For healthy recipes that are balanced, varied and a pleasure to eat, let BBC Food show you how. If you're lactose-intolerant or allergic to dairy products, BBC Food's dairy-free dishes will freshen up your repertoire
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Riots show how the UK's far right has changed No single group owned or organised the recent riots - they were bigger than that, says Daniel De Simone. Power, oil and a $450m painting - insiders on the rise of Saudi's Crown Prince Why does the Church of England struggle to deal with child abuse allegations? Starmer will be judged on how he tackles root causes of riots What does science tell us about boxingГўВҖВҷs gender row? What is Elon Musk's game plan? Protests reveal deep-rooted anger, but UK is not at boiling point In one US state, women politicians dominate. What pointers can it offer Kamala Harris? The junior doctors' strikes may be over. But is trouble ahead? Why we might never know the truth about ultra-processed foods We don't know how many people are having babies - and that's a headache for schools Conspiracy theories swirl about geo-engineering, but could it help save the planet? Donald TrumpГўВҖВҷs supporters saw two sides of him. Which one might govern? Unfathomable errors and 'cinnamon bun' strategy: Political end-of-term report cards Bereaved families force law changes - why did it take so long? Why did Bayesian yacht sink in 16 minutes? Audio, 10 minutesWhy did Bayesian yacht sink in 16 minutes? Brexit means reset. Audio, 36 minutesBrexit means reset What Hezbollah wants. Audio, 23 minutesWhat Hezbollah wants Has an ex-IRA prisoner found a missing Army officer's burial site? Audio, 27 minutesHas an ex-IRA prisoner found a missing Army officer's burial site? Bringing education back to Afghan children. Video, 26 minutesBringing education back to Afghan children How the secret Banksy empire works. Video, 25 minutesHow the secret Banksy empire works Mpox: The outbreak. Video, 13 minutesMpox: The outbreak What if I can't read? Video, 16 minutesWhat if I can't read? Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least 10 Palestinians killed in Israeli raids in West Bank At least 10 Palestinians are killed in separate incidents in the north of the territory. World Food Programme halts Gaza staff movements Rescued Israeli pleads for hostage deal with Hamas Israeli settlers are seizing Palestinian land under cover of war - they hope permanently Medic saw 'apocalyptic' scenes during Gaza mission Has Israel taken enough action to prevent alleged incitement to genocide? Namibia blocks ship over Israel war-crime concerns Who are the leaders of Hamas? What is Hezbollah and will it go to war with Israel? Where does Israel get its weapons? What are the historical reasons behind the conflict? Lebanese relief as Hezbollah and Israel seem to step back from brink Israel and Hezbollah say they don't want war - but they are both ready for it Israel-Gaza ceasefire: Is a deal still possible? 'On verge of an explosion': Policeman's killing part of spiralling West Bank violence Risk of regional war hangs over Gaza ceasefire talks Baby contracts Gaza's first case of polio in 25 years Gaza nurse says whole family, including quadruplets, killed in air strike Netanyahu putting politics before Gaza deal, dead hostage's daughter says Lebanese hold their breath as mediators scramble to avert all-out war Confronting violent settlers in the occupied West Bank, together Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Why is Harris bringing Walz to her first major interview?  A guide to Trump's four criminal cases Kamala Harris campaign is light on policy - but that's helped her transform the race How does US electoral college choose presidents? The presidential race is not just Harris v Trump Trump campaign and Arlington Cemetery staff clash at event The campaign is disputing reports of the incident, which stemmed from federal rules on filming military burial sites. Trump faces revised 2020 election interference charges Harris and Walz to sit for first interview of campaign Trump adds ex-Democrats Gabbard and RFK Jr to transition team Trump and Harris spar over muting debate microphones RFK Jr just endorsed Trump. Will it matter in November? Robert F Kennedy Jr suspends campaign and backs Trump The 'blended' family behind Kamala Harris Tim Walz: The ex-football coach and teacher who became Harris's VP pick Royce White: A candidate's controversial path from NBA to Maga Who is Gwen Walz, wife of Harris's VP pick? Why tech bros are turning to Trump Kamala Harris on her journey and hopes for the US. Video, 00:02:42Kamala Harris on her journey and hopes for the US 'That's my dad': Tim Walz's son Gus gives tearful reaction to speech. Video, 00:00:57'That's my dad': Tim Walz's son Gus gives tearful reaction to speech Watch: Oprah and Bill Clinton turn out for Tim Walz's big day. Video, 00:01:53Watch: Oprah and Bill Clinton turn out for Tim Walz's big day What young Democrats want Harris to do if she wins. Video, 00:01:40What young Democrats want Harris to do if she wins 'I wish my mother and Kamala's mother could see us' - Clinton. Video, 00:01:05'I wish my mother and Kamala's mother could see us' - Clinton 'She did a really smart thing': Democratic voters like Harris's pick 'The right move but is it too late?' Democratic voters react Vance 'can only go up': Republican voters applaud VP pick 'Something needs to happen' - Democratic voters on replacing Biden 'I feel terrible for him and America': Voters worry about Biden We're looking for US voters who want to share their views on the election Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Who will still be getting winter fuel payments? How much is the state pension worth now? How much does uni in the UK cost and will I earn more if I go? How much is child benefit worth and who can claim it? Who gets 15 hours of free childcare and how do I apply? What can I do if I can't pay my energy bill? How quickly are prices rising in the UK? Water bills: How much will I have to pay? How can I pay off my debts and what help is available? How much are prices rising for you? Try our calculator When will mortgage rates come down? Five ways to save money on your mortgage Can my landlord put up my rent, keep my deposit or evict me? Mortgage calculator: Will my payments rise? Summer 'really tough for parents on low income' Red-hot rent rises cool but tenants still struggling Mums 'fuming' over 'unrealistic' uniform costs Charity helps struggling owners keep their pets Cafe owner trying to help families over holidays Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's long-range drones using Western tech to hit Russia Western technology and finance are helping Ukraine carry out hundreds of long-range strikes inside Russia. Ukraine to present 'victory plan' to US - Zelensky Massive Russian strikes hit Ukraine for second day Heritage under attack: Ukrainians revive interest in culture Seven killed in 'most massive' Russian air attack, Ukraine says Russian woman's killer released for second time to fight in Ukraine Tributes paid to 'gentle giant' killed in Ukraine Pokrovsk: Ukraine's vital eastern town in Russian sights Ukraine hopes its incursion into Russia changes outcome of war Ukraine's surprise advance into Russia a dilemma for Biden Phone taps, sabotage and an assassination plot: Is Germany in Cold War 2.0? Rosenberg: Ukraine's advance undermines Putin's image as 'Mr Security' Gains in Russian territory shape Ukraine independence celebrations He lost his legs in the war, now heГўВҖВҷs UkraineГўВҖВҷs most desirable man The lonely death of a jailed Russian pianist who opposed war ГўВҖВҳI never worked for the RussiansГўВҖВҷ - punished by Kyiv for being a collaborator Russian priests bless fire trucks as huge blaze continues after Ukraine attack Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Surging seas are coming for us all, warns UN chief Speaking to the BBC at the Pacific Islands Forum, AntГғВіnio Guterres says these islands are the "most vulnerable".  Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Everest's Sherpas fear their homes could wash away Climate Q&A: Population, volcanoes and electric cars Despair as the sea slowly swallows a Kenyan beauty spot Electric 'superhighway' approved between Scotland and England Mature trees offer hope in world of rising emissions  UK getting more hot and more wet days ГўВҖВ“ Met Office World breaks hottest day record twice in a week  Is climate change making hurricanes worse? What's the real distance between Sunak and Starmer on climate? Crossbows and eerie silences ГўВҖВ“ following Antarctic whales for climate change clues Why is the world getting warmer? What does net zero mean? What you can do to reduce carbon emissions Get exclusive insight on the latest climate and environment news from the BBCГўВҖВҷs Climate Editor Justin Rowlatt, delivered to your inbox weekly. Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow UK Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM Health experts welcome plans but some pub owners and hospitality bosses warn of economic pain. 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lee Carsley names first England squad Three injured as car crashes into house Man who threatened to kill Ed Miliband jailed Colum Eastwood resigns as SDLP leader Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Swedish chef critical after attack near Notting Hill Carnival 'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009. Video, 00:01:35'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 'I stole to order', ГӮВЈ300-a-day former shoplifter tells BBC. Video, 00:03:05'I stole to order', ГӮВЈ300-a-day former shoplifter tells BBC 'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire. Video, 00:00:41'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire Horizon scandal: 'Cleared 15 years after taking blame to protect mum' Video, 00:01:55Horizon scandal: 'Cleared 15 years after taking blame to protect mum' Remembering Eriksson - England's groundbreaking boss. Video, 00:02:49Remembering Eriksson - England's groundbreaking boss Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow World UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue Israel says it killed five militants hiding in a mosque, on the second day of a major operation. Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Ukraine's long-range drones using Western tech to hit Russia Spanish actor's son jailed for gruesome murder Floods in Indian state kill 28 and displace thousands Nevada politician given life sentence for reporter's murder India approves $8.5bn Reliance-Disney entertainment mega-merger Three dead as Japan hit by one of strongest typhoons in decades Paralympics opening ceremony lights up Paris HK journalists found guilty in landmark sedition case Anger after strangers lock toddler in plane toilet Lion rescued from Ukraine takes first steps outside Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside. Video, 00:00:44Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside Thousands of floating dead fish blanket Greek port. Video, 00:00:38Thousands of floating dead fish blanket Greek port 'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina. Video, 00:00:49'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats. Video, 00:00:38Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Digging riverbeds in Zimbabwe in desperate search for water  Sex abuse allegations rock Indian film industry Three months into global cruise, passengers have not left Belfast Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC The motoring group claims retailers not drivers have benefitted from lower tax on petrol and diesel. Over 2,000 workers apply for Tata Steel redundancy UK government will not fight Rosebank oil field legal challenge AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Power firm pays ГӮВЈ25m penalty over inaccurate data Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Home Office criticised for billions of asylum overspending Thames Water says it needs 59% bill rise to survive Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports 'Hellway' - the new-build estate with no end of snags What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Have supermarkets reached peak self-scan? Defence firms 'need reassuring' that big orders will be long-term Technology of Business CEO Secrets Artificial intelligence New Tech Economy Global cost of living Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Reeves under growing pressure on winter fuel payments Lib Dem leader Sir Ed Davey says withdrawing the payment from millions of pensioners is a "big mistake". Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM Far right is very real threat, says Keir Starmer UK government will not fight Rosebank oil field legal challenge Starmer confirms smoking ban extension being considered. Video, 00:01:10Starmer confirms smoking ban extension being considered Starmer: Reset with EU will not reverse Brexit Henry Zeffman: PM tries to define his Europe 'reset' Proposed smoking ban will see death knell of pub - Farage. Video, 00:01:20Proposed smoking ban will see death knell of pub - Farage Home Office criticised for billions of asylum overspending Disgraced politicians may get kicked out of Senedd Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Help with energy bills urged for struggling pensioners What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Henry Zeffman: Starmer will keep on attacking the Tories How much are gas and electricity bills going up this winter? Why is Thames Water in so much trouble? Who is in the running for the Scottish Tory leadership? Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Culture Abba complain about Trump using songs in campaign The Swedish superstars object after hits like The Winner Takes it All were played at a campaign rally. K-pop singer leaves boy band over sexual crime accusation Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Star Wars Outlaws maker defends glitches in 'complex' game Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Scots music stars warn of 'catastrophe' over arts funding cuts Rings of Power star slipped Welsh word into show Harry Styles viaduct protected from 'well-meaning damage' Sex abuse allegations rock Indian film industry Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Nevada politician given life sentence for reporter's murder Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? Why do we care so much about Oasis? How Winona Ryder conquered Hollywood... and could be about to again Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Meet Cassyette: The genre-defying rock star who brought screamcore to Eurovision 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009. Video, 00:01:35'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 What would it take to get Oasis back together? ГўВҖВ“ Liam asked in 2016. Video, 00:01:08What would it take to get Oasis back together? ГўВҖВ“ Liam asked in 2016 Oasis reunion teased after Liam Gallagher Reading set. Video, 00:00:14Oasis reunion teased after Liam Gallagher Reading set Jack Lowden: 'As a shy kid, I felt at home on stage' Video, 00:01:31Jack Lowden: 'As a shy kid, I felt at home on stage' Watch: Edinburgh Fringe magicians perform 'really freaky' trick. Video, 00:01:13Watch: Edinburgh Fringe magicians perform 'really freaky' trick Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes The islands are the windiest part of the UK, which means it will be rare for the turbines not to be spinning. Baby boom prompts call to boost wild beaver population Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Watch out for Ashley but never fear Yvonne SpaceX delays first private spacewalk mission The people working to help Scotland's bats bounce back Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Why the skies turned red over the UK this weekend Brian May argues for better farm hygiene to protect badgers UK military satellite launches to boost space power Scottish isles may solve mystery of 'Snowball Earth' Watch: The Northern Lights seen from space. Video, 00:01:00Watch: The Northern Lights seen from space Reservoir of liquid water found deep in Martian rocks  Europe's Ariane-6 rocket blasts off on maiden flight Satellite captures first-of-a-kind cloud image The Sun has entered a ГўВҖВҳbusy periodГўВҖВҷ Musk's SpaceX to destroy retired space station Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Parents warned of back-to-school measles surge Children should be up to date with all vaccinations to protect them and other people, officials say. Ambulances ГўВҖВҳwaste vital timeГўВҖВҷ on prison call-outs Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM Experts want inquiry delay over Letby evidence concerns Protect kids from vapes, doctors urge government NHS warns of continued short supply of blood  'The pain was excruciating' after mesh implants Does eating meat raise the risk of diabetes? Research finds drones can deliver blood safely Mpox not new Covid and can be stopped, expert says Will the NHS ever pay for the new era of dementia drugs? How worried should we be about mpox? Infected blood victims could get ГӮВЈ2m compensation What is the infected blood scandal? 'Blood compensation comes too late for my husband' Children used as 'guinea pigs' in clinical trials Infected blood inquiry: Five things we have learned What is mpox and how is it spread? The junior doctors' strikes may be over. But is trouble ahead? Slimming jabs: 'I thought my body was shutting down' UV levels explained - how do I protect myself? Are weight-loss injections the answer to obesity? How the UK planned for the wrong pandemic What is the UK Covid inquiry and what powers does it have? Covid inquiry: The UK pandemic in numbers Ex-medical officer close to tears over Covid deaths Five takeaways from Johnson at the Covid inquiry Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Ellie Boatman: How rugby helped me with eating disorder. Audio, 4 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Ellie Boatman: How rugby helped me with eating disorder Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Erin Kennedy: My oncologists are coming to Paris. Audio, 4 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Erin Kennedy: My oncologists are coming to Paris How Dame Deborah James helped save a mum's life. Video, 00:02:11How Dame Deborah James helped save a mum's life Can health secretary name NHS trusts performing well? Video, 00:01:59Can health secretary name NHS trusts performing well? 'I embrace my alopecia, but IГўВҖВҷd love my old hair backГўВҖВҷ Video, 00:01:39'I embrace my alopecia, but IГўВҖВҷd love my old hair backГўВҖВҷ Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Students face uncertainty in BTec funding 'mess' Schools and colleges in England say a lack of clarity on the future of vocational courses is a "minefield". Rise in pupils educated outside mainstream schools in Wales Bristol University students to miss freshers' week More cuts in Scotland will 'break the children or teachers - or both' Empathy can be taught at school, study suggests Infant school hit by cyber attack Students urged to top up vaccines before term time Tearful results day... but for all the right reasons. 00:00:19, play videoTearful results day... but for all the right reasons Great-grandad passes GCSE English aged 73! 00:00:23, play videoGreat-grandad passes GCSE English aged 73! Emotions run high for student who did better than expected. 00:00:26, play videoEmotions run high for student who did better than expected Ringing your dad with a BIG surprise. 00:00:27, play videoRinging your dad with a BIG surprise A GCSE rap from the Rapping Science Teacher. 00:00:22, play videoA GCSE rap from the Rapping Science Teacher 'I was expecting a couple of fails but I passed' 00:00:17, play video'I was expecting a couple of fails but I passed' 'Very impressive!' - Cardiff student reveals results. 00:00:29, play video'Very impressive!' - Cardiff student reveals results 'I'm proudest of my 5 in Spanish' 00:00:24, play video'I'm proudest of my 5 in Spanish' 'Apprenticeship will give me a well-paid job' 00:00:31, play video'Apprenticeship will give me a well-paid job' 'They call me Mr Consistent for a reason' 00:00:22, play video'They call me Mr Consistent for a reason' 'I got straight 9s' 00:00:37, play video'I got straight 9s' 'Not the grades I wanted but I don't mind' 00:00:26, play video'Not the grades I wanted but I don't mind' 'All the hard work has paid off' 00:00:24, play video'All the hard work has paid off' 'Three, two, one!' - The countdown to results. 00:00:22, play video'Three, two, one!' - The countdown to results Celebs' good luck messages. 00:00:50, play videoCelebs' good luck messages Do I need to pay to resit exams? 00:00:25, play videoDo I need to pay to resit exams? 'GCSEs aren't your whole life' - meet the Brickies. 00:00:45, play video'GCSEs aren't your whole life' - meet the Brickies Results day tips from other students. 00:01:03, play videoResults day tips from other students Ami Charlize on dealing with worrying. 00:00:40, play videoAmi Charlize on dealing with worrying Apprenticeships - fact or fiction? 00:00:49, play videoApprenticeships - fact or fiction? Growing up with dyslexia: 'What if I can't read?' Video, 00:02:27Growing up with dyslexia: 'What if I can't read?' Four takeaways from 2024's GCSE results 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Five key takeaways from 2024's A-level results What is an apprenticeship and how do you get one? Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow In Pictures WW2 camera used to photograph dig near ancient fort A student brought her grandfather's camera to the latest excavations at Fife's East Lomond hill. Whoops, blooms and blue moons: Africa's top shots Badgers, birds and bridges star in photo exhibition Why the skies turned red over the UK this weekend In Pictures: The Perseid meteor shower Ping pong prowess to Red Sea bubbles: Africa's top shots Haunting portrait of young storm victim wins photo award ГўВҖВҳMy day in a Liverpool alley with 35 drag queensГўВҖВҷ Trump rally descends into screams and disarray as shots ring out How pioneering UK photojournalists captured change A photographer's 11-day trek to flee war-torn Sudan  Artist paints British landmarks on teabags 18-24 August 2024 10 - 17 August 3 - 9 August 2024 27 July - 2 August 2024 20-26 July 2024 Your pictures on the theme of 'summertime' Your pictures on the theme of 'in the kitchen' We set the theme, you take the pictures Your pictures on the theme of 'time'  Your pictures on the theme of 'shadows' Ghana's first photojournalist turns 95. Video, 00:02:25Ghana's first photojournalist turns 95 'Why I'm taking pictures of the bins in my town' Video, 00:01:07'Why I'm taking pictures of the bins in my town' Photographers create Exmoor photo library. Video, 00:01:14Photographers create Exmoor photo library Photographer brings famous book of poetry to life. Video, 00:03:00Photographer brings famous book of poetry to life The stunning drone footage teaching us about sharks. Video, 00:01:44The stunning drone footage teaching us about sharks Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Star Wars Outlaws maker defends glitches in 'complex' game Creative director Julian Gerighty feels the early bugs are partly a product of their ambition for the game. Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Amy Winehouse Live Lounge performance voted best of 25 years Rapper A$AP Rocky apologises to fans for album delay It Ends With Us star says female cast 'vilified' Seven things we learned from Gamescom opening night Rachel Chinouriri cancels US shows over costs Singer Chappell Roan calls out fans' 'creepy behaviour' New musical from creators of Six: This show is for us UK garage music at 30: ItГўВҖВҷs not dying, but a way of life Opening for Taylor Swift: 'I feel like the coolest person' Respected gaming magazine praised after sudden closure Warning over antibiotic-resistant gonorrhoea cases Disney star arrested at theme park over 'domestic incident' Taking TikTok comedy to the Edinburgh Fringe Emotional Miley becomes youngest-ever Disney Legend Five crazy weeks as an Olympic chauffeur Rapper Travis Scott released without charge in Paris Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow BBC Verify Kamala Harris convention speech fact-checked BBC Verify has looked into some of the claims made by Kamala Harris at the DNC in Chicago.
 BBC Verify analyses footage of Ukraine's incursion into Russia. Video, 00:02:53BBC Verify analyses footage of Ukraine's incursion into Russia Six Kamala Harris claims fact-checked Trump falsely claims Harris crowd was faked Fact-checking claims about Tim WalzГўВҖВҷs military record Trump's chat with Musk on X fact-checked The real story of the news website accused of fuelling riots BBC Verify analyses Manchester Airport incident footage. Video, 00:02:46BBC Verify analyses Manchester Airport incident footage Southport stabbing: How the knife attack unfolded. Video, 00:01:57Southport stabbing: How the knife attack unfolded BBC Verify analyses attacks on the French railway system. Video, 00:02:29BBC Verify analyses attacks on the French railway system The missed warnings ahead of the Trump attack. Video, 00:02:14The missed warnings ahead of the Trump attack BBC Verify looks at evidence linking Russia to Kyiv hospital strike. Video, 00:02:18BBC Verify looks at evidence linking Russia to Kyiv hospital strike Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Kimberley Ann Hawkins stole Neil Shadwick's mobility scooter, leaving him to die in the cold. Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Preparing for the Paralympics with sweat Hoovers and heat chambers. Audio, 27 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Preparing for the Paralympics with sweat Hoovers and heat chambers First ever Paralympics fan zones come to London What's happening and when at the Paris Paralympics? All you need to know about the Paris Paralympics Paralympian targets two more golds at Paris games Disabled woman uses bed built for her when she was 8 Access All: Disability News and Mental Health Global athletes to follow at Paris Paralympics Will the NHS ever pay for the new era of dementia drugs? Tributes to MND champion who created 'vital' Euan's Guide How Ed Jackson went from spinal injury to mountain climbing Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 32 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Adam Hills and Dan Tiernan. Audio, 30 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Adam Hills and Dan Tiernan Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Matt Forde and Abby Cook. Audio, 28 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Live at the Edinburgh Festivals: Matt Forde and Abby Cook Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. Accessible housing: ГўВҖВҳI lived in a hotel for 17 monthsГўВҖВҷ Audio, 22 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health Accessible housing: ГўВҖВҳI lived in a hotel for 17 monthsГўВҖВҷ Access All: Disability News and Mental Health. ГўВҖВҳI was desperateГўВҖВҷ: The ads for unlicensed ADHD meds getting banned. Audio, 27 minutesAccess All: Disability News and Mental Health ГўВҖВҳI was desperateГўВҖВҷ: The ads for unlicensed ADHD meds getting banned Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The BBC News app is available for Android and iOS devices With the latest news and analysis from our journalists around the world and the unique human stories behind current events, we've got the best of our journalism in one place on the BBC News app. Click here, external to download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here, external to download the BBC News app from Google Play for Android devices. If you're outside the UK, you can download the BBC app here, external. Features include:  News, features and analysis Read top stories and breaking news Watch live and developing news coverage Get news and weather local to you Follow news that's important to you Get alerts for top stories We would like to know what you think of the new app - click here to give us your feedback. Depending on the contract you have, data charges may apply for accessing the internet on your mobile device. If you are not sure about the potential charges, please ask your mobile network provider. You may find some costs are included in your existing price plan or that you can opt for a data package that gives reduced charges for accessing the internet. The BBC does not charge you to access mobile content. Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Swedish chef critical after attack near carnival Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland Ten-month-old girl dies after Tavistock car crash Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two pedestrians and driver dead after car crash Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Find your regional news Paris Paralympic Games 2024: The opening ceremony in pictures 'I want my children to remember me competing in a Paralympics' Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Suzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life. Audio, 3 minutesSuzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life Day-to-day guide: Who's up for gold? Latest news and must-see moments Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum. Video, 00:02:02Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? First-look pictures released for new series of Waterloo Road Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Spencer Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor. Video, 00:01:36Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Absolute classics everyone should learn to cook Replace your usual chips with these impressive potato dishes Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Here's why you could be storing your fruit wrong How food halls have managed to become big business. Audio, 26 minutesHow food halls have managed to become big business Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Can building your own home tackle housing crisis? What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Video, 00:06:14What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Why coffee and alcohol make us feel so much worse as we age Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash. Video, 00:06:30Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash NHS launches fresh appeal for blood donors as shortage continues 'I hid chronic pain from loved ones for 25 years' 'Don't follow your dreams': Is this the key to a happy life? 'I played with David Bowie at Live Aid' 12-year-old finds rare Roman gold bracelet on dog walk Photographer unveils extraordinary close-ups of bugs on his doorstep 'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses. Audio, 00:05:10'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Ten skills you might not know you had Tips for the new year from BBC Bitesize Back to school: friendship groups. 00:00:34, play videoBack to school: friendship groups Back to school: organisation hacks. 00:00:47, play videoBack to school: organisation hacks Back to school: school rules. 00:00:35, play videoBack to school: school rules Back to school: making friends. 00:00:43, play videoBack to school: making friends Back to school: bullying advice. 00:00:25, play videoBack to school: bullying advice Back to school: positive routines. 00:00:33, play videoBack to school: positive routines Back to school: peer pressure. 00:00:42, play videoBack to school: peer pressure Back to school: feeling overwhelmed. 00:00:39, play videoBack to school: feeling overwhelmed Back to school: subjects you don't like. 00:00:31, play videoBack to school: subjects you don't like Back to school: disruptive classes. 00:00:28, play videoBack to school: disruptive classes Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Coercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Audio, 6 minutesCoercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Stream and download your favourite BBC podcasts, radio stations and music all in one place New episodes available from September 3rd A complex web of revenge and betrayal Romesh gets to the bottom of infamous celebrity mysteries Getting up close with Africa's magnificent felines Unmissable performances from the festival so far Donna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover. Video, 3 minutesDonna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover Celebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces. Audio, 89 minutesCelebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces Doctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show. Audio, 179 minutesDoctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show Stravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall. Audio, 149 minutesStravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall Britten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever. Audio, 104 minutesBritten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later Britain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Video, 19 minutesBritain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Budget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World. Video, 58 minutesBudget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World Grenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' Audio, 14 minutesGrenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' BBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists. AudioBBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 31 minutesStephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Shares in Nvidia have fallen despite the artificial intelligence (AI) chip giant comfortably beating expectations after more than doubling its sales. Nvidia announced record revenues of $30bn (ГӮВЈ24.7bn) over a three-month period.  The company has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom, with its stock market value soaring to more than $3 trillion. But while analysts have grown used to Nvidia producing "spectacular" sales growth, the latest results indicate "that rate of growth was starting to slow," said Simon French, head of research at Panmure Liberum. Analysts had forecast sales growth of $28.7bn for the three months to 28 July. Nvidia surpassed this with revenues increasing by 122% compared to the same period last year.  But following the release of the results, Nvidia's share price fell by 6% in after-hours trading in New York on Wednesday.  On Thursday, its shares were down about 2% in early trading, but its stock remains about 150% up so far in 2024, making it one of the big winners in the US market. "ItГўВҖВҷs less about just beating estimates now," said Matt Britzman, senior equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown. "Markets expect them to be shattered and itГўВҖВҷs the scale of the beat today that looks to have disappointed a touch."  Announcing the latest results, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said: "Generative AI will revolutionise every industry." But Mr French told the BBC: "If youГўВҖВҷre going to raise expectations that high then youГўВҖВҷve got to keep growing at spectacular rates." He added that while its current AI chip - called Hopper - is selling well, the next generation Blackwell chip "has faced some production delays and that perhaps is one of the reasons why Wall Street after hours sold off the stock". Nvidia's results have become a quarterly event which sends Wall Street into a frenzy of buying and selling shares. A "watch party" had been planned in Manhattan, according to the Wall Street Journal, while Mr Huang, famed for his signature leather jacket, has been dubbed the "Taylor Swift of tech". Alvin Nguyen, senior analyst at Forrester, told the BBC both Nvidia and Mr Huang have become the "face of AI". This has helped the company so far, but it could also hurt its valuation if AI fails to deliver after firms have invested billions of dollars in the technology, Mr Nguyen said. "A thousand use cases for AI is not enough. You need a million." Mr Nguyen also said Nvidia's first-mover advantage means it has market-leading products, which its customers have spent decades using and has a "software ecosystem". He said that rivals, such as Intel, could "chip away" at Nvidia's market share if they developed a better product, though he said this would take time. AI frenzy makes Nvidia the world's most valuable company Why is Nvidia boss the 'Taylor Swift of tech'? Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The fire was one of South Korea's worst factory disasters in recent years The chief executive of Aricell, a South Korean lithium battery company, has been arrested over a massive factory fire in June that killed 23 people and injured nine others.  A court approved the warrant for Park Soon-kwan's arrest on Wednesday. Investigators have said Aricell's management is suspected of workplace safety violations. The fire was one of South Korea's worst factory disasters in recent years. Aricells' parent company, S-Connect, did not immediately respond to a BBC request for comment. After the fire Mr Park issued an apology: "We are deeply saddened by the loss of life and would like to express our deepest condolences and apologies to the bereaved families." "We take great responsibility and will sincerely provide support to the deceased and their families in every way possible," he added.  Park Soon-kwan was arrested after an investigation found safety failings at the plant His arrest comes after a police investigation found that the factory had been rushing to meet production deadlines. Investigators said there were a number of safety issues at the plant, including a failure to address quality defects in batteries and hiring unskilled staff to handle dangerous materials. It was also alleged that Aricell had been cheating in quality inspections related to contracts with the military. The blaze broke out on 24 June after several battery cells exploded. At the time of the fire, the Aricell factory housed an estimated 35,000 battery cells on its second floor, where batteries were inspected and packaged. As a lithium fire can react intensely with water, firefighters had to use dry sand to extinguish the blaze, which took several hours to get under control. The victims were mostly foreign workers, from country's including China and Laos. South Korea is a leading producer of lithium batteries, which are used in many items from electric cars to laptops. This video can not be played Footage shows moment deadly factory South Korea fire breaks out Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pavel Durov pictured speaking at a conference in 2016 Telegram boss and founder Pavel Durov has been placed under formal investigation in France as part of a probe into organised crime on the messaging app, Paris prosecutors say. Mr Durov, 39, has not been remanded in custody, but placed under judicial supervision, and has to pay a ГўВӮВ¬5m (ГӮВЈ4.2m; $5.6m) deposit. The Russian-born billionaire, who is also a French national, also has to show up at a French police station twice a week and is not allowed to leave French territory. Mr Durov was first detained upon arrival at Le Bourget airport north of Paris last Saturday under a warrant for offences related to the app.  Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Telegram says arrested CEO Durov has 'nothing to hide' In Wednesday's statement, the Paris prosecutors said Mr Durov was put under formal investigation over alleged offences that included:  Complicity in the administration of an online platform to enable illicit transactions by an organised gang Refusal to communicate with authorities  Complicity in organised criminal distribution of sexual images of children In France, being put under formal investigation does not imply guilt or necessarily result in a trial - but it indicates that judges consider there is enough of a case to proceed with an investigation. Mr Durov has so far made no public comments on the latest developments. His lawyer, David-Olivier Kaminski, said Telegram complied in every respect with European digital regulations and was moderated to the same standards as other social networks. It was "absurd" to suggest his client could be involved "in criminal acts that don't concern him either directly or indirectly", he added. It is unprecedented for the owner of a social media platform to be arrested because of the way in which that platform is being used, and it has fuelled a fierce debate online about freedom of speech and accountability.  We have previously seen tech bosses hauled in front of lawmakers for confrontational grillings about their practices and failings, but not met by law enforcement at airports. Elon Musk, the owner of X, has defended Mr Durov, arguing that moderation is a "propaganda word" for censorship. He has called for Mr Durov's release.  Chris Pavlovski, the founder of a controversial video-sharing app called Rumble, said he had fled Europe following Mr DurovГўВҖВҷs detention. While most of the worldГўВҖВҷs largest social networks do engage with national and international bodies when it comes to serious criminal offences such as the sharing of child sexual abuse images, Telegram is accused of ignoring them.  The firm, which is now headquartered in Dubai, insists that its moderation tools meet industry standards. French President Emmanuel Macron said earlier this week that France was deeply committed to freedom of expression, and that the decision to hold Mr Durov was "in no way... political". Huge groups of up to 200,000 people can share and comment on information and content on Telegram - WhatsApp on the other hand limits its maximum group size to just over 1,000. While Telegram messages can be encrypted, meaning that only the sender and recipient can view them, this is not activated by default and has to be manually switched on to private chats. On Monday evening, Paris prosecutors said Mr Durov was being held in custody as part of a cyber-criminality investigation. In response, Telegram said Mr Durov had "nothing to hide". Russia has warned France against turning the case into what it described as a "political persecution", having previously said that without serious evidence the charges could be construed as an act of "intimidation". "We know that the president of France has denied any connection [to the case] with politics," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday, according to Reuters.  "But on the other hand, certain accusations are being made." Russian lawmaker Leonid Slutsky said that the charges against Mr Durov sounded "wild" and that the Telegram CEO was a "hostage of the dictatorship of democracy of the collective West".  Telegram is ranked as one of the major social media platforms.  It was founded in 2013 and is particularly popular in Russia, Ukraine and other former Soviet Union states, as well as Iran. Russian war correspondent Sasha Kots wondered whether users would ever "trust Telegram as before". Kots, who regularly posts updates about the war in Ukraine to his large Telegram following, suggested that French and Western authorities might now have access to the network's encryption keys. "The truth is that no matter how events around Durov develop now, one can never be sure of the security of the messenger," he wrote on Telegram. The BBC revealed on Wednesday that Telegram - which has more than 950 million registered users - has repeatedly refused to join international programmes aimed at detecting and removing child abuse material online. The BBC has contacted Telegram for comment about its refusal to join the child protection schemes. Mr Durov, who also founded the popular Russian social media company VKontakte, left Russia in 2014 after refusing to comply with government demands to shut down opposition communities on the platform. He also holds passports of St Kitts and Nevis and the United Arab Emirates. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Europe Ukraine's long-range drones using Western tech to hit Russia Western technology and finance are helping Ukraine carry out hundreds of long-range strikes inside Russia. Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Spanish actor's son jailed for gruesome murder Arrest over two Britons found dead in car in Sweden Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Paralympics opening ceremony lights up Paris Sir Ben Ainslie robbed in Spain ahead of America's Cup race Three crew investigated over Bayesian yacht sinking Thousands of floating dead fish blanket Greek port. Video, 00:00:38Thousands of floating dead fish blanket Greek port American archaeologist drowns after replica Viking boat sinks Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Starmer: Reset with EU will not reverse Brexit Pokrovsk: Ukraine's vital eastern town in Russian sights Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? What's happening and when at the Paris Paralympics? In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Belarus filmmaker pleads with Serbia not to send him back 'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina. Video, 00:00:49'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina Watch: Spectacular display as Iceland volcano explodes again. Video, 00:00:46Watch: Spectacular display as Iceland volcano explodes again The Paralympic table tennis love story. Video, 00:03:10The Paralympic table tennis love story UK ambassador says survivors described 'distressing' situation. Video, 00:01:17UK ambassador says survivors described 'distressing' situation Supermoon lights up the sky around the world. Video, 00:01:33Supermoon lights up the sky around the world Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Dodo Pizza did not put the AI-created blueberry and breakfast cereal pizza on sale Can AI help restaurant owners come up with tasty new menus to tempt customers, or is this just a recipe for disaster? "We asked [popular AI chatbot] ChatGPT to create a recipe - the best pizza for Dubai," says Spartak Arutyunyan, who heads menu development for the cityГўВҖВҷs branch of restaurant and delivery chain Dodo Pizza. "And it did create a recipe. We launched it, it was actually a huge hit, and it's still on the menu.ГўВҖВқ With 90% of Dubai's three million people being immigrants, "there's so many cultures here", says Mr Arutyunyan. "Indians, Pakistanis, Filipinos, Arab people, European guys." He asked ChatGPT to come up with a pizza that represented that cultural mix. Its response was a topping comprising Arab shawarma chicken, Indian grilled paneer cheese, Middle Eastern Za'atar herbs, and tahini sauce. And Dodo PizzaГўВҖВҷs customers apparently cannot get enough of it. ГўВҖВңAs a chef, I wouldn't mix these ingredients ever on a pizza, but still, the mix of flavours was surprisingly good,ГўВҖВқ says Mr Arutyunyan. Yet other pizzas dreamed up by the AI did not make it to the menu, for example strawberries and pasta, and blueberries and breakfast cereal. Spartak Arutyunyan says the AI-created pizza they put on sale was a "huge hit" A world away in the US, Venecia Willis conducted a similar AI experiment at Dallas' Velvet Taco, where she is culinary director. She became "really curious" about AI, so she let ChatGPT loose on devising one of their tacos of the week. For prompts, Ms Willis says she told it to "use, like, eight ingredients, and it could only select one tortilla and one protein". Some recipe results were rather less than moreish. "There were some funky combinations, and I was like, I'm not really sure if red curry, coconut tofu and pineapple are going to be delicious together," says Ms Willis. But she made three of the recipes that looked more promising, and ultimately chose a prawns and steak taco to go on public sale. They sold 22,000 in a week. ГўВҖВңI think AI is a great tool to use when you're in a bit of a creative slump, to get the brain going again ГўВҖВ“ ГўВҖВҳthat combination might actually work, let's try itГўВҖВҷ. The AI can suggest something maybe I wouldn't have thought of." But Ms Willis adds that she ГўВҖВңwouldnГўВҖВҷt go completely rogue with AI. There has to be a human element to validate recipes.ГўВҖВқ Venecia Willis says the AI came up with some "funky" taco suggestions Not everyone in the food trade loves the idea of AI though. London-based cocktail creator Julian de Feral says he avoids AI because it ГўВҖВңseems very counter-intuitiveГўВҖВқ, with its choices lacking common sense. AI chatbots are ГўВҖВңnot magicГўВҖВқ, warns Emily Bender, a linguistics professor at the University of Washington in Seattle. She says that they have instead learned from what they have read online. ГўВҖВңIf you can get ChatGPT to spit out something that looks like a recipe, then it's because there are recipes on the internet.ГўВҖВқ She adds that the AI could have grabbed the recipe from someoneГўВҖВҷs cookery blog, thereby decreasing their reader numbers, and their ability to make a living from subscriptions or advertising revenue. However, Prof Bender does concede that in the future more sophisticated AI may be helpful in recipe creation. She says that the AI could be asked to "categorise ingredients as sweet, or acidic, and so on", find those that the internet says should taste good together, and then come up with endless detailed recipes. "However, you have to have a well-defined research question [to give the AI] to get that kind of benefit," she adds. Still, UK supermarket chain Waitrose is using AI to spot rising food trends on social media. Currently these include ГўВҖВңsmash burgersГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВ“ crispy burgers made by squashing ground beef onto a super-hot pan ГўВҖВ“ and ГўВҖВңcrookiesГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВ“ a croissant filled with cookie dough and chocolate chips. "We saw smash burgers trending all over social media," says Lizzie Haywood, Waitrose's innovations manager. ГўВҖВңNow three or four dedicated smash burger restaurants opening up in the UK has coincided with us launching our smash burgers.ГўВҖВқ As for crookies, she says the AI saw that the mention of them had ГўВҖВңjumped 80 to 90% from last year on social media, and we managed to launch them into trial stores in three months". Waitrose uses AI to trawl the internet for food trends, such as crookies In Singapore, Italian expat Stefano CantГғВ№ has created an AI-powered app that can suggest recipes in response to you telling it what ingredients you have in your fridge and cupboards. In a nod to the app being powered by ChatGPT he has called it ГўВҖВңChefGPTГўВҖВқ. "I'm Italian, so of course I cook stuff," says Mr CantГғВ№, whose day job is at a software company. He says he came up with the idea ГўВҖВңover a weekendГўВҖВқ after asking ChatGPT for recipe inspirations. The app also has drop-down menus and toggles, to let a user specify tools they have in their kitchen, or if they're in a hurry or not a very good cook. The AI then comes up with a recipe and a picture of the dish. Mr CantГғВ№ says he got 30,000 users within a week and a half of launching last year. But then he got ГўВҖВңquite a big bill from OpenAIГўВҖВқ, the company behind ChatGPT. He now continues to pay OpenAI a regular fee for using its AI. Mr CantГғВ№ explains that this is a standard arrangement when a start-up like his builds its app on top of another company's technology. He adds that he is continuing to try to find ГўВҖВңthe right balance between advertising and subscriptions, and the right level of usage to give free users". And how he can ГўВҖВңmonetise free users without selling their data". Back in Dubai, Spartak Arutyunyan at Dodo Pizza says AI should be seen as more of a fun thing to use rather than something youГўВҖВҷd base your entire menu around. Yet Dodo Pizza is now enabling customers in Dubai, who order via its app, to try using AI themselves to dream up unusual pizza toppings. And the firm says it aims to extend the AI function to its other branches around the world. Could reading instruction manuals become a thing of the past? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes Can technology fix the 'broken' concert ticketing system? Would-be reality TV contestants 'not looking real' Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The buy now, pay later firm Klarna is seeking to get rid of almost half its employees in the coming years through efficiencies it says arise out of its investment in artificial intelligence (AI). The firm has already cut its workforce from 5,000 to 3,800 in the past year, and wants to reduce that to 2,000 employees by using AI in marketing and customer service. Boss Sebastian Siemiatkowski told the BBC the job cuts would mean Klarna could pay its remaining workers more. But he said the government needed to think about what to do about AI, which he predicted would have "a dramatic impact" on jobs and society. "I think politicians already today should consider whether there are other alternatives of how they could support people that may be effective," he told the Today programme, on BBC Radio 4. He said it was "too simplistic" to simply say new jobs would be created in the future. "I mean, maybe you can become an influencer, but it's hard to do so if you are 55-years-old," he said. The recent proliferation of AI has put its benefits and risks under the spotlight. Earlier this year, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said it believed AI would impact nearly 40% of all jobs, and it would "likely worsen overall inequality". In other sectors, such as the games industry, developers have warned they are already losing work to AI. Klarna - which is based in Sweden, and has two UK offices - disclosed its job-cutting plans as it announced interim results which showed it increased its revenue by 27% to 13.3 billion Swedish krona (ГӮВЈ990 million). "Our proven scale efficiencies have been enhanced by our investment in AI, which has driven down operating expenses and improved gross profits," it said. It comes as unions have warned of mass job losses amid the growth of AI and are calling for legislation to protect workers. Mr Siemiatkowski  said Klarna would reduce its headcount through what he called "natural attrition" - effectively a hiring freeze, where staff aren't replaced after they leave. Typically this means the people that remain are left with an increased workload. But Mr Siemiatkowski contended that AI would be replacing this work, and even claimed it was a potential "positive development" for some individuals who may be paid more. While he said it was "critical" for government to consider what to do about those who lost their jobs, he suggested there was no "stopping progress" for firms like his. "It's important that Europe and democracies are ahead in the evolution of AI," he said. Klarna is understood to be shrinking its workforce ahead of a listing on the stock exchange, which has recently been dominated by firms heavily investing in AI, such as Nvidia and Microsoft. This means Klarna being seen as a big proponent of the tech may make its stock more appealing to investors when it does eventually go public. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pavel Durov founded Telegram in 2013 The BBC has learned that Telegram - the messaging app service whose boss has been arrested in France - refuses to join international programmes aimed at detecting and removing child abuse material online. The app is not a member of either the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) or the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) - both of which work with most online platforms to find, report and remove such material. It comes as the founder and chief executive of the app - which has more than 950 million registered users - remains under investigation in France. Billionaire Pavel Durov has been detained over alleged offences relating to a lack of moderation on the platform. According to officials the 39-year-old is accused of failure to co-operate with law enforcement over drug trafficking, child sexual content and fraud. Telegram says it proactively moderates harmful content on its platform including child abuse material. The company insists that its moderation is "within industry standards and constantly improving". However, unlike all other social networks, it is not signed up to programmes like NCMECГўВҖВҷs CyberTipline which has more than 1,600 internet companies registered.  US-based firms are legally required to sign up but 16% of the companies who participate are not based in the US. Telegram is based in Dubai, where Mr Durov lives. Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? The vast majority of child sexual abuse material reports came from tech giants and social networks including Facebook, Google, Instagram, TikTok, Twitter (X), Snapchat and WhatsApp. The BBC understands that NCMEC has repeatedly asked Telegram to join to help tackle child sexual abuse material (CSAM) but it has ignored requests. Telegram also refuses to work with the Internet Watch Foundation, which is the UKГўВҖВҷs equivalent of NCMEC. An IWF spokesperson said: ГўВҖВңDespite attempts to proactively engage with Telegram over the last year, they are not members of the IWF and do not take any of our services to block, prevent, and disrupt the sharing of child sexual abuse imagery." By not being an active part of IWF or NCMEC, Telegram is not able to proactively find, remove or block confirmed CSAM which is categorised and added to lists compiled by the charities. IWF said that the company did remove CSAM once material was confirmed but said it was slower and less responsive to day-to-day requests. The BBC contacted Telegram for comment about its refusal to join the child protection schemes and received a response after publication which has been included.  Telegram is also not a part of the TakeItDown programme that works to remove so-called revenge porn.  Snap, Facebook, Instagram, Threads, TikTok, Pornhub and OnlyFans are all members of the scheme that uses a so-called hash list to scan for images and videos on their public or unencrypted platforms. Telegram is a messing app and social network with channels  Another norm that Telegram does not conform to in the usual way is Transparency Reporting. Every six months social networks publish a list of all the content taken down because of police requests.  Most other social networks including Meta's apps, Snapchat and TikTok publish their reports online with previous years in a library to refer to.  Telegram has no such website and only a channel on the app with no library history of transparency reports. It also describes its approach to Transparency Reports as "semiannual".  The Telegram Transparency channel did not reply to a request to see previous reports and said that there was "no report available for your region".  Telegram also has an unusual system for media in general. The contact method is through an automated bot on the app. This reporter has not had a reply in the months of trying to get a response to various requests. A reply was sent to this article but the press team did not respond to follow up questions.  In June Pavel Durov told journalist Tucker Carlson that he only employs ГўВҖВңabout 30 engineersГўВҖВқ to run his platform.  Mr Durov, who was born in Russia and now lives in Dubai, has citizenship in Russia, France, the United Arab Emirates and the Caribbean island nation of St Kitts and Nevis. Telegram is particularly popular in Russia, Ukraine and former Soviet Union states as well as Iran. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pavel Durov founded Telegram in 2013 Pavel Durov, the founder and CEO of messaging app Telegram, has been placed under formal investigation in France as part of a probe into organised crime on the messaging app. Prosecutors in Paris also said the 39-year-old billionaire has not been remanded in custody, but placed under judicial supervision, and has to pay a ГўВӮВ¬5m (ГӮВЈ4.2m; $5.6m) deposit. Mr Durov, who is also a French national, has to show up at a French police station twice a week and is not allowed to leave French territory. The actions from the prosecutors in France is the latest stage in this ongoing story, which has caused considerable shock in the world of technology. It is unprecedented for the owner of a social media or messaging platform to be arrested because of the way in which that platform is being used, and it has fuelled a debate about freedom of speech, accountability and the role of social media and messaging company bosses within all of that. Mr Durov's lawyer, David-Olivier Kaminski, said Telegram complied in every respect with European digital regulations and was moderated to the same standards as other social networks. He said it was "absurd" to suggest his client could be involved "in criminal acts that don't concern him either directly or indirectly". Mr Durov is a multi-billionaire who is originally from Russia. He founded the popular Russian social media company VKontakte. In 2014, Mr Durov left Russia after refusing to comply with government demands to shut down opposition communities on the platform.  A year earlier, he had founded Telegram and now runs the firm from Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) where he now lives. He holds citizenship of the UAE and France, but Russia has said it still regards him as a citizen.  After he was arrested, Telegram said Mr Durov travelled in Europe frequently. In an interview with the conservative US media personality Tucker Carlson in April, Mr Durov said he would refuse certain requests from authorities to remove content from his platform. He said: "Where we thought it would be crossing the line - it wouldn't be aligning with our values of freedom of speech and protecting people's private correspondence - we would ignore." Telegram is one of the world's biggest social media and messaging platforms along with Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, TikTok and WeChat. In July, Mr Durov claimed that Telegram reached 950 million monthly active users. It is popular in Russia and Ukraine, while pro-democracy groups in Iran and Hong Kong also use it. Telegram does offer end to end encryption, which means the messages can only be read on the device that sends them and the device that receives them, but this is not the default setting for the user.  The big difference between Telegram and similar services like WhatsApp is the size of groups you can be in on Telegram. WhatsApp limits group sizes to 1,000 users whereas up to 200,000 can be in a group on Telegram. Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss The platform has faced criticism that disinformation can spread in these huge groups. Critics have argued the platform has seen the sharing of conspiracist, neo-Nazi, paedophilic, or terror-related content. In the UK, the app was scrutinised for hosting far-right channels that were instrumental in organising this month's violent disorder in English cities and cybersecurity experts say its moderation of extremist and illegal content is significantly weaker than other social media companies and messenger apps. Following Mr Durov's arrest, Telegram said its moderation "is within industry standards and constantly improving". It said it abides by European Union laws, including the Digital Services Act, which aims to ensure a safe and accountable online environment. "Almost a billion users globally use Telegram as means of communication and as a source of vital information," the app's statement read. "WeГўВҖВҷre awaiting a prompt resolution of this situation. Telegram is with you all." In Wednesday's statement, the Paris prosecutors said Mr Durov was put under formal investigation over alleged offences that included: Complicity in the administration of an online platform to enable illicit transactions by an organised gang Refusal to communicate with authorities Complicity in organised criminal distribution of sexual images of children In France, being put under formal investigation does not imply guilt or necessarily result in a trial - but it indicates that judges consider there is enough of a case to proceed with an investigation. Elon Musk, the owner of X, has been defending Mr Durov for several days in a series of posts on his platform, formerly known as Twitter. He said moderation is a ГўВҖВңpropaganda wordГўВҖВқ for censorship, and called for Mr Durov's release. Chris Pavlovski, the founder of a controversial video-sharing app called Rumble, said he had fled Europe following Mr DurovГўВҖВҷs detention. Earlier this week Edward Snowden, the American whistleblower who now lives in Russia after revealing extensive internet and phone surveillance by US intelligence, said on X that Mr Durov's arrest was "an assault on the basic human rights of speech and association".  He added: "I am surprised and deeply saddened that [French President Emmanuel] Macron has descended to the level of taking hostages as a means for gaining access to private communications. It lowers not only France, but the world." After some details of the arrest had emerged, VyacheslavГӮВ Volodin - a prominent Russian politician and ally of Vladimir Putin - accused the US of being behindГӮВ the arrest of Mr Durov. "TelegramГӮВ isГӮВ oneГӮВ ofГӮВ theГӮВ fewГӮВ andГӮВ atГӮВ theГӮВ sameГӮВ timeГӮВ theГӮВ largest internet platforms over whichГӮВ theГӮВ UnitedГӮВ StatesГӮВ hasГӮВ no influence," he said in a post on the platform. President Macron posted on social media on Monday that he had seen "false information" regarding France following Mr DurovГўВҖВҷs arrest, and added: "This is in no way a political decision. It is up to the judges to decide." Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Warning: This story contains details readers might find distressing A predator posing as a famous teenage YouTuber who blackmailed hundreds of girls around the globe into performing sex acts on camera has been jailed for 17 years in Australia. Muhammad Zain Ul Abideen Rasheed pleaded guilty to 119 charges, relating to 286 people from 20 countries, including the UK, the US, Japan and France. Two-thirds of his victims were aged under 16. A Perth court heard the 29-year-old coerced them into a cycle of increasingly extreme abuse by threatening to send explicit messages and images of them to their loved ones.  Australian authorities say it is "one of the worst sextortion cases" in history. "The callous disregard this man had for his victims around the world and their distress, humiliation and fear make it one of the most horrific sextortion cases prosecuted in Australia," said Australian Federal Police Assistant Commissioner David McLean. "This type of online exploitation and abuse is devastating and causes lifelong trauma." When handing down her sentence on Tuesday, Judge Amanda Burrows said Rasheed's offence was of such magnitude there was "no comparable case" in the country, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC). Pretending to be a 15-year-old American internet star, Rasheed would strike up a conversation with his targets, before involving them in discussions about sexual fantasies. He threatened to send their responses to friends and family unless they performed a series of escalating, "degrading" sex acts  ГўВҖВ“ which at times included family pets and other children in their home. The court heard Rasheed had been involved in misogynistic "incel" communities online, and on several occasions had invited other people - in one case as many as 98 - to watch the distressing acts on a livestream. Many of the children being extorted told him they were suicidal - one even sent images of self-harm. But Rasheed continued his blackmail despite their "obvious distress" and "extreme fear", the judge said, according to the ABC. He was caught after Australian authorities were contacted by Interpol and US investigators, and charged in 2020 after a police raid on his home. Rasheed is already serving a five-year prison term for sexually abusing a 14-year-old twice in his car at a Perth park. The court heard he was engaged in a sex offenders treatment programme but Rasheed still represented a high risk of reoffending. He will be eligible to apply for parole in August 2033. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Australia Man posing as YouTube star jailed for global sextortion Muhammad Zain Ul Abideen Rasheed blackmailed 286 people - majority of them children - from 20 countries. Australians are the world's biggest gamblers - could banning ads help? Australia introduces cap on international students People trapped in mid-air after ride malfunctions in Australia. Video, 00:00:37People trapped in mid-air after ride malfunctions in Australia Qantas sells cut-price first-class fares by mistake Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Australian court rules in landmark case that asked 'what is a woman?' This Australian election is about cost of living, crime - and pet crocs How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world Adam Britton: The ГўВҖВҳmonsterГўВҖВҷ animal abuser who hid in plain sight The Saudi wife who fled to Melbourne - then disappeared The newest victims of Australia's homelessness crisis Supermoon lights up the sky around the world. Video, 00:01:33Supermoon lights up the sky around the world Weather presenter speaks out about on-air panic attack. Video, 00:02:15Weather presenter speaks out about on-air panic attack Australian breakdancer Raygun opens up about 'devastating' hate online. Video, 00:01:21Australian breakdancer Raygun opens up about 'devastating' hate online Watch: Blue screens, queues and airport delays worldwide. Video, 00:01:20Watch: Blue screens, queues and airport delays worldwide Watch: Moment Julian Assange walks free from court. Video, 00:00:20Watch: Moment Julian Assange walks free from court Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Barbie-branded phone has been launched in the UK and Europe with the aim ГўВҖВ“ its makers say ГўВҖВ“ of helping young people take a break from their smartphones. It is a very pink and fundamentally very basic device, with no front camera, only one game and very limited access to the internet. Manufacturer HMD, which also makes phones for Nokia, says it's trying to tap into what it calls a "surge" of people wanting a smaller "digital impact" on their lives. But others say that would be better achieved by teaching people how to use their devices in a healthier and more controlled way. There are growing calls from parents and campaigners to limit the time children spend on smartphones, or even ban the devices completely. Their concerns range from the suspicion children will end up with shorter attention spans, to the fear that they might be exposed to harmful or illegal content. Some schools are taking action, perhaps most eye-catchingly the UK's best known fee-paying school, Eton College. It is providing some of its pupils with "brick" phones ГўВҖВ“ also sometimes called feature phones ГўВҖВ“ which can only send and receive texts and calls. It says it wants to "balance the benefits and challenges that technology brings to schools." And this week mobile network EE waded into the debate by advising parents not to allow their under-11s smartphones at all. Lars Silberbauer, a senior executive at HMD, says it is these trends his firm is responding to. "We've seen this surge which started in the US coming to Europe, that more and more people actually want to not be having a digital experience all the time," he said. Some may be sceptical about how truly noble Mr Silberbauer's motives are ГўВҖВ“ and he did concede he would ГўВҖВңloveГўВҖВқ to be able to incorporate a messaging platform like WhatsApp into the Barbie phone.  But I spent a day using it and, for now, there is little doubt that as a digital detox it was certainly effective because of its very limited functionality. It is mirror-fronted flip phone and has no app store or touch screen. I had no social media at all, and the phone can not receive anything more advanced than SMS messages. That means no text messages with "read receipts" or the function to see when someone is typing. It is the default setting on many smartphones ГўВҖВ“ so I didnГўВҖВҷt get many text messages either. Even with predictive text enabled I found the numbers and letters keypad much slower than a touchscreen keyboard and as a result I ended up calling more people than usual, which perhaps was no bad thing.  And I discovered there are only so many times you can play the retro Nokia game Snake, even when itГўВҖВҷs called Malibu Snake and it's pink.  But the handset certainly attracted a lot of attention, especially from girls and young women, as I walked around Glasgow city centre with it. There is of course the danger that instead of being pestered for a smartphone, parents will find themselves being pestered for a piece of Barbie merchandise - which may be just as unwelcome. The phone has a launch price of ГӮВЈ99 in the UK ГўВҖВ“ twice what you would pay for a non-branded Nokia feature phone. There are plenty of other phones on the market that offer the same limited functionality, but without any kind of big corporate tie in. "IГўВҖВҷd imagine quite a few people will be tempted to buy it as a bit of fun, but in reality, everyone is so dependent on their smartphones that anything more than the odd day of detox will be a stretch," says Ben Wood, a phone expert who has his own museum of devices released over the years. Nonetheless, he says, there is a market for what are sometimes called "dumbphones". His firm, CCS Insight, estimates that around 400,000 will be sold in the UK this year. "That's an attractive niche for a company like HMD", he says. Some experts suggest that withdrawing smartphones is no real solution ГўВҖВ“ they are woven into our lives, after all ГўВҖВ“ and instead children need to be taught how to use them in a healthy and safe way.  "What we should be doing instead is thinking about, how do we build really good, really long term, sustainable digital literacy skills in that generation," says Pete Etchells, professor of psychology and science communication at Bath Spa university, who has written extensively about the issue of screen time. ГўВҖВңI think we could all be better at using our phones in a healthier and more resilient way," he said. HMD is also working on a separate project, a new device which it is designing in collaboration with parents. It says more than 1,000 people have signed up to work on it so far. And Mr Silberbaum concedes that the resulting handset may well end up being something that sits somewhere between a dumbphone and a smartphone. ГўВҖВңDo I want the smartphone with all the bells and whistles, or do I want to have something that can actually help me have a more considered approach to digital? That's the choice we want to deliver,ГўВҖВқ he said. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Luke Bennett was a world champion at the Esports World Cup in Saudi Arabia Eight weeks, hundreds of competitors across multiple events and a multi-million pound prize pot - but this wasn't any sports tournament.  Luke Bennett is coming home from the first Esports World Cup in Saudi Arabia as a world champion. Not only that, the 19-year-old from Bromsgrove in Worcestershire is also returning ГӮВЈ100,000 richer after bagging the top prize in sim racing (short for simulated racing).  "ItГўВҖВҷs pretty surreal," Luke tells BBC Newsbeat. But now he's hoping he has a chance to make it properly real with a career in motorsport.  Luke's part of Team Redline ГўВҖВ“ an offshoot of Red BullГўВҖВҷs F1 team which boasts Belgian-Dutch racing driver Max Verstappen among its alumni.  "It's just like racing a car in real life," Luke says of sim racing. "But on a computer." The team was founded more than 20 years ago but Luke says people are still surprised when he talks about what he does. He says people are shocked when he tells them about the prize money involved. "It shows itГўВҖВҷs getting bigger and bigger and it can be a career for some people." Team Redline dominated at the Esports World Cup, never finishing outside of the top four once in the grand finals of the tournament. "ItГўВҖВҷs been a rough few months," says Luke. "Every day ГўВҖВ“ practice, practice, practice. "All that weight has been lifted off our shoulders now." Luke's hoping he may be able to translate his esports success to a real-life racing track Luke isn't just fast on the virtual track. He says his career is moving at top speed as well. "I started driving with just a ГӮВЈ100 steering wheel on the desk and having a bit of fun," he says. Not long after, fellow competitors noticed his potential and his parents helped him buy a better simulator.  "ThatГўВҖВҷs when things really took off," he says.  "I joined Team Redline and after that itГўВҖВҷs just been up and up and up until this point right now." Esports tournaments are still "quite niche and quite new," he says. "ItГўВҖВҷs not been long since all this prize money started coming through and all these big competitions started so thereГўВҖВҷs not many stories of people going all the way." In that sense, he's a pioneer, admitting "the future is a bit uncertain" for esports champions. But as uncertain as it might be, the industry received another boost last month when it was announced from next year there would also be an Olympic Esports Games. Like the Esports World Cup, the Games will be held in Saudi Arabia as part of a 12-year partnership between the Kingdom and the International Olympics Committee. Before the World Cup, players, streamers and fans were divided by the decision for it to be hosted in the Arab country - which also funded the prize pot - due to its record on human rights. Homosexuality is illegal in Saudi Arabia and it has faced criticism over its stance on LGBT relationships as well as lack of rights for women. Critics condemned it as "sportswashing" but the decision was defended by organisers who told Newsbeat no-one would face discrimination at the event. About 1,500 gamers competes at the Esports World Cup in Riyadh  Luke says the country was "a really cool setting" for the event and now has his eye on winning more tournaments and making it to the Olympics - something he says would be "unbelievable". "I think IГўВҖВҷd find it a bit weird calling myself an Olympian because I really donГўВҖВҷt feel like one," he says. "But itГўВҖВҷs something that would be very cool. "The dream is still the same ГўВҖВ“ we may be world champions but thereГўВҖВҷs always more.  "We want to be world champions in everything, so weГўВҖВҷll keep going." And if he can be a pioneer in an online esports career, Luke sees no reason he can't be a pioneer offline too. "I hope one day to get into the real world of motorsport," he says. "I see more and more people get a way in through sim racing now, and hopefully that does happen. "If not, IГўВҖВҷve got plenty of time to decide what I want to do as IГўВҖВҷm still only 19." Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 weekdays - or listen back here. Olympic esports will level the playing field, says boss Esports World Cup boss defends holding event in Saudi Arabia Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Meta boss Mark Zuckerberg says he regrets bowing to what he calls pressure from the Biden administration to "censor" content on Facebook and Instagram during the coronavirus pandemic. In a letter sent to a US House committee chair, he said some material ГўВҖВ“ including humour and satire ГўВҖВ“ was taken down in 2021 under pressure from senior officials. The White House has defended its actions, saying it encouraged "responsible actions to protect public health and safety". Mr Zuckerberg also said his firm briefly "demoted" content relating to Joe Biden's son, Hunter, ahead of the 2020 election, after the FBI warned of "a potential Russian disinformation" operation.  It later became clear that this content was not part of such an operation, Mr Zuckerberg said, and it should not have been temporarily taken down. Mr Zuckerberg did not give further detail about the actions he regretted during the pandemic. At that time, his business removed posts for a variety of reasons. Mr Zuckerberg said the decisions made were the decisions of his business, but that the ГўВҖВңgovernment pressure was wrongГўВҖВқ. He continued: "We made some choices that, with the benefit of hindsight and new information, we wouldn't make today." Mr Zuckerberg said he and Meta would be ready to "push back" if something similar happened in the future. His letter was addressed to Jim Jordan, the chair of the House judiciary committee, which has been investigating content moderation on online platforms. Republicans said the letter was a "big win for free speech, external". In a statement issued to the website Politico, external, the White House stood by its actions. It said: ГўВҖВңOur position has been clear and consistent: we believe tech companies and other private actors should take into account the effects their actions have on the American people, while making independent choices about the information they present.ГўВҖВқ Mr Zuckerberg's comments on Hunter Biden refer to the story of a laptop that was abandoned by the president's son at a repair shop in Delaware - as first reported by the New York Post. The newspaper claimed emails found on the computer suggested his business abroad had influenced US foreign policy while his father was vice-president. The president and his family have denied any wrongdoing. The story became a notable right-wing talking point in the US, and a point of contention as some social media platforms censored the content. Mr Zuckerberg said the story was temporarily demoted on his platforms while going through a fact-check - after a warning from the FBI of a potential Russian disinformation operation, and "in retrospect, we shouldn't have demoted the story," Mr Zuckerberg wrote. "We've changed our policies and processes to make sure this doesn't happen again." Mr Zuckerberg also said he did not plan to make any more contributions to supporting electoral infrastructure. In 2020, he donated $400m (ГӮВЈ302m) via his philanthropic Chan Zuckerberg Initiative which was intended to help government offices conduct the election during the pandemic. However, misinformation spread rapidly on social media accusing Mr Zuckerberg of effectively using a loophole to skirt maximum donation limits in a bid to get Mr Biden elected. Mr Zuckerberg said his donations "were designed to be non-partisan". "Still, despite the analyses I've seen showing otherwise, I know that some people believe this work benefited one party over the other. "My goal is to be neutral and not play a role on way or another - or to even appear to be playing a role - so I don't plan on making a similar contribution this cycle." Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US and European Union have announced similar duties on Chinese imports Canada says it will impose a 100% tariff on imports of China-made electric vehicles (EV) after similar announcements by the US and European Union. The country also plans to impose a 25% duty on Chinese steel and aluminium. Canada and its Western allies accuse China of subsidising its EV industry, giving its car makers an unfair advantage. China has called the move "trade protectionism" which "violates World Trade Organization rules". "We are transforming Canada's automotive sector to be a global leader in building the vehicles of tomorrow, but actors like China have chosen to give themselves an unfair advantage in the global marketplace", said Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Canada's duties on Chinese EVs are due to come into effect on 1 October, while those on steel and aluminium will be implemented from 15 October. A Chinese Commerce Ministry spokesperson said Canada's actions "seriously undermine the global economic system, and economic and trade rules". "China urges the Canadian side to immediately correct its erroneous practices," they added. China is Canada's second-largest trading partner, behind the US. In May, the US said it would quadruple its tariffs on imports of Chinese EVs to 100%. That was followed by the EU, which announced plans to impose duties on China-made EVs of up to 36.3%. Canada's tariffs on Chinese EVs will include those made by Tesla at its Shanghai factory. "Tesla will almost certainly be lobbying the Canadian government to get some leeway on these tariffs, as they have already with Europe," said Mark Rainford, a China-based car industry commentator. "If they fail at mitigating the tariff enough, they'll likely look at switching their Canadian imports to either the US or European factories since Canada is their 6th largest market this year and thus not insignificant." Tesla did not immediately reply to a request for comment from BBC News. Earlier this month, the EU cut its planned extra tariff on China-made Teslas by more than half, after further investigations requested by Elon Musk's car maker. Chinese car brands are still not a common sight in Canada but some, like BYD, have taken steps to enter the country's market. China is the world's largest manufacturer of EVs and its car makers have quickly gained a significant share of the global market. Meanwhile, Canada has struck deals worth billions of dollars with major European car makers, as it tries to become a key part of the global EV industry. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pavel Durov founded Telegram in 2013 Since Pavel Durov, the Russian-born billionaire and founder of the Telegram messaging app, was arrested on landing in Paris on Saturday evening, there has been more speculation than substance about his fate. The headline in a Russian newspaper summed up the story: ГўВҖВңThe arrest (or detention) of ГўВҖВҳRussiaГўВҖВҷs ZuckerbergГўВҖВҷ, Pavel Durov, is one of the most important, but mysterious global news stories,ГўВҖВқ declared Nezavisimaya Gazeta. True. Except that "mysterious" is a bit of an understatement. Why did French police detain him? What charges will he face? Has it anything at all to do with his recent visit to Azerbaijan, where he met (or didnГўВҖВҷt meet) Russian President Vladimir Putin? For two days, reporters have quoted "sources close to the investigation" about the offences Pavel Durov may be charged with (allegedly, from complicity in drug-trafficking to fraud). Telegram put out a statement saying Mr Durov had "nothing to hide".  On Monday evening, the Paris prosecutor said in a statement that Mr Durov was being held in custody as part of a cyber-criminality investigation. The statement mentioned 12 different offences under investigation that it said were linked to organised crime. These included illicit transactions, child pornography, fraud and the refusal to disclose information to authorities, the prosecutor said. The statement added that Mr Durov's time in custody had been extended and could now last until Wednesday. Without going into detail, President Emmanuel Macron posted on social media that he had seen ГўВҖВңfalse informationГўВҖВқ regarding France following Mr DurovГўВҖВҷs arrest, and added: "This is in no way a political decision. It is up to the judges to decide." In Moscow, the Kremlin is being cautious. ГўВҖВңWe still donГўВҖВҷt know what exactly Durov has been accused of,ГўВҖВқ Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists on Monday, in his first comments on Pavel DurovГўВҖВҷs detention. ГўВҖВңWe havenГўВҖВҷt heard any official statements. Before I can say anything at all about this, we need some clarity.ГўВҖВқ Clarity is not something of which everyone in Russia feels the need. On Monday, state TVГўВҖВҷs flagship political talk show had plenty to say on the matter. Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Telegram says arrested CEO Durov has 'nothing to hide' ГўВҖВңAll these accusations against Durov sound absurd,ГўВҖВқ one political analyst in the studio declared. ГўВҖВңAccusing him of all the crimes that are committed on his platform is like accusing [France's] President Macron of all the crimes that happen in France. ItГўВҖВҷs the same logic.ГўВҖВқ Russian newspapers, too, went big on the story. Several dailies expressed concern that Pavel DurovГўВҖВҷs arrest could have serious consequences for Russia. ГўВҖВңThis blow to Telegram threatens to be a blow to Russia,ГўВҖВқ wrote Nezavisimaya Gazeta. ГўВҖВңWith Pavel DurovГўВҖВҷs arrest, Western intelligence services could obtain the messengerГўВҖВҷs encryption keys.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңTelegram might become a tool of Nato, if Pavel Durov is forced to obey the French intelligence services,ГўВҖВқ declared Moskovsky Komsomolets, adding: ГўВҖВңTelegram chats contain a huge amount of vitally important, strategic information.ГўВҖВқ In April 2018, the Russian authorities began blocking access to Telegram, only to lift the ban in 2020. Today, not only do Russian officials use the messenger, but so does the Russian military, including soldiers fighting in the so-called "Special Military Operation" (RussiaГўВҖВҷs war in Ukraine). ГўВҖВңIf Telegram crashes,ГўВҖВқ Moskovsky Komsomolets asked today, ГўВҖВңhow is [our army] going to fight?ГўВҖВқ In the West, Pavel DurovГўВҖВҷs detention has sparked a debate about free speech.  In Russia, too, presidential human rights ombudsman Tatyana Moskalkova claimed that ГўВҖВңthe real reason for arresting Pavel Durov was to shut down Telegram, a platform where you can discover the truth about whatГўВҖВҷs happening in the world. Everyone who strives for free speech protests this.ГўВҖВқ Ms Moskalkova made no mention of the Signal messaging app, to which the Russian authorities blocked access earlier this month, or YouTube, access to which has been severely limited now in Russia. Facebook and Instagram have already been blocked here. And what of those rumours of a Putin-Durov meeting in Baku earlier in August. Was there one? ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov replied when I asked. However this mysterious story ends, Moscow will use it to strengthen one of its official narratives: that Russian citizens should beware of the West. As the popular tabloid Komsomolskaya Pravda put it: ГўВҖВңFor the West, there is no such thing any more as ГўВҖВҳgood RussiansГўВҖВҷ." Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The ride-hailing app Uber has been hit with a ГўВӮВ¬290m (ГӮВЈ246m; $324m) fine for transferring the personal data of European drivers to US servers in violation of EU rules, the Dutch data protection regulator said on Monday. The Dutch Data Protection Authority (DPA) said the transfers were a "serious violation" of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), as they failed to appropriately protect driver information. According to the watchdog, information including ID documents, taxi licences and location data was transferred to the company's headquarters in the US over a two-year period. Uber said it would appeal the fine, which it called "unjustified". "Uber's cross-border data transfer process was compliant with GDPR during a 3-year period of immense uncertainty between the EU and US,ГўВҖВқ an Uber spokesperson said. "This flawed decision and extraordinary fine are completely unjustified," the statement added. While data transfers to the US are allowed under EU law, there is significant uncertainty around when they can occur without the need for further authorisation.  DPA chairman Aleid Wolfsen said the company failed to meet GDPR requirements to ГўВҖВңensure the level of protection to the data with regard to transfers to the US.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңThat is very serious,ГўВҖВқ he added, noting that Uber also failed to appropriately safeguard the data. The DPA said Uber collected sensitive information of European drivers, including taxi licences, location data, photos, payment details, identity documents, "and in some cases even criminal and medical data of drivers". It said it started the investigation after more than 170 French drivers complained to a French human rights group, which then filed a complaint to France's data protection watchdog. Under GDPR rules, a business that processes data in several EU countries must deal with the data protection authority where its main office is located. Uber's European headquarters are in the Netherlands. "In Europe, the GDPR protects the fundamental rights of people, by requiring businesses and governments to handle personal data with due care," Mr Wolfsen said. ГўВҖВңThink of governments that can tap data on a large scale,ГўВҖВқ he said, explaining, ГўВҖВңbusinesses are usually obliged to take additional measures if they store personal data of Europeans outside the European Union." It is the DPA's third fine against Uber following fines of ГўВӮВ¬600,000 (ГӮВЈ508,000) in 2018 and ГўВӮВ¬10m (ГӮВЈ8.5m) last year. The EU has rolled out a series of rules for big tech firms and imposed huge fines for breaches in recent years. Last year Irish regulators fined TikTok ГўВӮВ¬345m (ГӮВЈ296m) for violating children's privacy under GDPR rules.  Uber faces ГӮВЈ250m London black cab drivers case Uber gets go-ahead as York licence granted Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A "right to disconnect" rule has come into effect in Australia, offering relief to people who feel forced to take calls or read messages from employers after they finish their dayГўВҖВҷs work. The new law allows employees to ignore communications after hours if they choose to, without fear of being punished by their bosses. A survey published last year estimated that Australians worked on average 281 hours of unpaid overtime annually. More than 20 countries, mainly in Europe and Latin America, have similar rules. The law does not ban employers from contacting workers after hours. Instead, it gives staff the right not to reply unless their refusal is deemed unreasonable. Under the rules, employers and employees should try to resolve disputes among themselves. If that is unsuccessful in finding  a resolution Australia's Fair Work Commission (FWC) can step in. The FWC can then order the employer to stop contacting the employee after hours. If it finds an employee's refusal to respond is unreasonable it can order them to reply. Failure to comply with FWC orders can result in fines of up to A$19,000 ($12,897; ГӮВЈ9,762) for an employee or up to A$94,000 for a company. Organisations representing workers have welcomed the move. It "will empower workers to refuse unreasonable out-of-hours work contact and enabling greater work-life balance", The Australian Council of Trade Unions said. A workplace expert told BBC News that the new rules would also help employers. "Any organisation that has staff who have better rest and who have better work-life-balance are going to have staff who are less likely to have sick days, less likely to leave the organisation", said John Hopkins from Swinburne University of Technology. "Anything that benefits the employee, has benefits for the employer as well." However, there was a mixed reaction to the new law from employees. "I think it's actually really important that we have laws like this," advertising industry worker, Rachel Abdelnour, told Reuters. "We spend so much of our time connected to our phones, connected to our emails all day, and I think that it's really hard to switch off as it is." Others, however, do not feel the new rules will make much of a difference to them. "I think it's an excellent idea. I hope it catches on. I doubt it'll catch on in our industry, to tell the truth though," David Brennan, a worker in the financial industry, told the news agency. "We're well paid, we're expected to deliver, and we feel we have to deliver 24 hours a day." Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It is an increasingly common message from websites: browse for free - if you allow us to track your data and target you with personalised ads - if you don't, hand over some cash. The model is known as "consent or pay" and, while it may be becoming increasingly common, questions remain over whether it is ethical or even legal. The UK data regulator, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has launched a consultation, external on the practice - it will report its findings later this year. "In principle, data protection law does not prohibit business models that involve 'consent or pay,'" the ICO says on its website.  But it continues: "However, any organisation considering such a model must be careful to ensure that consent... has been freely given and is fully informed, as well as capable of being withdrawn without detriment." At issue are several competing demands.  Regulators, like the ICO, want to make sure people remain, as far as is possible, in charge what happens to their personal data. Websites, meanwhile, are wary of the shifting sands of online advertising - and fearful of losing revenue to more upstart parts of the online world, such as influencers. "Fundamentally it comes down to an argument between a right to do business and a right to privacy," says Philippa Donn, a partner at DPN Associates, a consultancy which advises on data protection issues. There's a common way to understand internet business models: "If you're getting it for free, you are the product." What that means in practice is websites give away their content away for free and in return you feed them with your personal data. They then sell that information so you can be targeted with ads more personal to you - and more lucrative for them. But, since 2018, there has been a threat to that model: websites in the UK have had to ask for explicit consent to use cookies and similar tracking technologies. Everyone has become familiar with the pop-up when you visit a site, asking you to "accept all" or reject nonessential cookies. The problem for websites is that if you reject tracking they gather less information, which means advertisers pay them less because they as less confident about how well directed their ads are. Which is where "consent or pay" comes in - it is an attempt by websites to make up for the money they lose if you say no to your data being collected and sold. One of the industries this particularly affects is the print media, which is largely funded by advertising and paywalls online. But online advertisers have taken their spending elsewhere ГўВҖВ“ on social media sites, influencers and brand deals ГўВҖВ“ leaving a black hole in newspaper budgets. Newspapers such as MailOnline, The Sun, The Independent and The Times have all recently brought in "consent or pay" models.  "It's basically saying, 'We're giving people a choice. They can either pay and get ad-free access to our articles, or they can be tracked, or they can walk away and not read it,'" Philippa Donn says. This question being considered by the ICO and others is - is that a fair choice? The idea of freely-given consent has to meet a "very high bar," says Eva Lu, associate at law firm Stephenson Harwood. For Ms Lu, it comes down to whether the user has "a genuinely free choice to how their personal data should be used by the organisation." This means that whether or not the model is allowed may come down to a case-by-case basis. The amount users have to pay for privacy may be taken into account. Another factor considered will be the size of the company and if there is an alternative option for users. "If you can't read a certain article, you might just choose not to and you can go read about it somewhere else," says Ms Lu.  But for other industries, such as film and TV streaming, "it could be a lot harder to justify," she adds. "From a user's perspective, if I want to watch a film or a TV show and it's only available on that streaming service or platform, then that the alternative may not be there elsewhere." The question has been tested on social media in the EU, where Meta put a "pay or consent" policy on Instagram and Facebook. Under this model, Facebook and Instagram still track your behaviour on their apps in order to feed the recommendation alogrithm. But that data is not used to target ads at you. In general in the EU, the tech giants such as Meta are held to higher standards than smaller companies when it comes to regulation. In July, the European Commission informed Meta that preliminary findings suggest its "pay or consent" model is against EU law.  Meta now has the right to review the evidence gathered by the EU and mount a defence. Meta maintains it is acting within the law and "subscriptions as an alternative to advertising are a well-established business model across many industries". The company is currently in discussions with the ICO, the UK data regulator, about bringing the model to the UK in the future.  A company spokesperson says they are "engaging constructively" and will share more information in the future. No decisions have been made yet. Google U-turn over long-running plan to ditch cookies Crunch time for cookie use, watchdog warns Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Friends and colleagues of Mike Lynch have paid tribute to "the UK's greatest tech entrepreneur" after he was confirmed to have died when a luxury yacht sank off the coast of Sicily. The British businessman, 59, was killed, along with his daughter Hannah, 18, and five other people when the boat foundered in stormy weather early on Monday. Their bodies were recovered following a search by divers spanning several days, with Hannah's the last to be brought ashore, on Friday. Mr Lynch was a prominent figure in the UK tech industry, where his backing of successful companies led to him being dubbed the British equivalent of Microsoft founder Bill Gates. However, he later became embroiled in a long-running legal dispute which resulted in him being controversially extradited to the US, before being acquitted earlier this summer. In a statement on Friday, a spokesperson for the Lynch family said it was a time of "unspeakable grief" for them. ГўВҖВңThe Lynch family is devastated, in shock and is being comforted and supported by family and friends. Their thoughts are with everyone affected by the tragedy," they said. Andrew Kanter, a close friend and colleague of Mr Lynch, said he was ГўВҖВңthe most brilliant mind and caring person I have ever known.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңOver nearly a quarter century I had the privilege of working beside someone unrivalled in their understanding of technology and business,ГўВҖВқ he said. Former Sun newspaper editor David Yelland said Mr Lynch was "an irreplaceable loss not only to those that loved him but also to the country". "He is the UK's greatest tech entrepreneur of recent decades, a family man, a long-time client of my business and a friend," he said. "To think Mike Lynch lost his life just as he began to rebuild it is devastating for all those that know him." Morgan Stanley International bank chairman Jonathan Bloomer, his wife Judy Bloomer, Clifford Chance lawyer Chris Morvillo, his wife Neda Morvillo and Recaldo Thomas, the yacht's chef, also died when the vessel sank. In a statement confirming their parents' deaths, the Bloomer family described the couple as "incredible people and an inspiration to many". Mr Lynch is survived by his wife Angela Bacares, who was rescued, along with 14 others, after the yacht sank, as well as their elder daughter Esme.  Mike Lynch and Angela Barcares lived at the Loudham Hall estate in Suffolk.  A picture of Hannah and her father Mike Lynch was shared on Friday Brent Hoberman, co-founder of Lastminute.com, described the events as "tragic", saying Mr Lynch had much more to give to the UK tech scene. "He was still on his journey, and heГўВҖВҷd been sidetracked for a decade with this court case," he told the BBC. "I think there was a lot of unfulfilled potential." IT analyst Richard Holway said in a post on LinkedIn, external that Mr Lynch - a friend of more than 25 years - was "a unique British tech talent".  "Goodness knows what he could have achieved next," he added. Mr Lynch co-founded tech firm Autonomy in 1996, which expanded rapidly and was sold to Hewlett Packard for $11bn (ГӮВЈ8.6bn) in 2011, from which he is believed to have netted ГӮВЈ500m. But questions over the sale of Autonomy led to a long-running legal battle. In 2022, Mr Lynch lost a civil fraud case against HP at the High Court in London. A day later, he was extradited to the US as part of criminal proceedings, and was facing a possible two decades in jail. He was acquitted in June this year after a jury found him not guilty of the crimes. He told BBC Radio 4 that though he was convinced of his innocence, he was only able to prove it in a US court because he was rich enough to pay the enormous legal fees involved. Mr Lynch is reported to have gone on the yacht trip with his family to celebrate securing his freedom. Its name, Bayesian, is understood to derive from the theory that his PhD thesis - and the software that underpinned Autonomy - was based on. Witnesses say its aluminium mast broke in half in a storm, causing the ship to lose its balance and sink. Dick Smith, a neighbour of Mr Lynch, told the BBC he was "reeling from the shock of the news". "He was so approachable and a very easy person to talk to with a nice sense of humour," he said. "You might think with all that money he would be difficult to talk to, but in fact he was a very easy person to talk to." Born on 16 June 1965, Mr Lynch was the son of a nurse and a fireman, and was raised near Chelmsford in Essex. His first computer was a BBC Micro, and he wrote fondly of how it shaped his passion for programming in a 2011 BBC article celebrating 30 years of the device. While at school his "first foray into commercialisation of technology" came when designing a digital sampler that could sample music, then selling the designs, according to a 2017 interview, external. He continued the hobby while studying Natural Sciences at the University of Cambridge - where he said he annoyed his college by getting "solder in the carpets" of his room. While at Cambridge he earned a PhD in mathematical computing, and later undertook a research fellowship. In 1991, Mr Lynch helped establish Cambridge Neurodynamics - a firm which specialised in using computer-based detection and recognition of fingerprints. His tech firm Autonomy was created five years later, using a statistical method known as "Bayesian inference" at the core of its software. The company's fast-paced growth and success throughout the late 1990s and early 2000s saw Mr Lynch earn a number of awards and accolades. In 2006 he was awarded an OBE in recognition of his service to UK enterprise. He served on the board of the BBC as a non-executive director, and in 2011 was appointed to the government's council for science and technology - advising then-Prime Minister David Cameron on the risks and possibilities of AI development. Following the sale of Autonomy, Mr Lynch established tech firm Invoke Capital, which helped create prominent UK cybersecurity firm Darktrace in 2013. Lynch had a seat on its board until earlier this year. Reacting to the news on Thursday, a spokesperson for Darktrace said that they were shocked by the tragedy, describing Mr Lynch as an "active champion" of the UK's technology sector. "His loss will be felt by many," they added. British tech tycoon: I only got justice because I'm rich Mike Lynch defends himself in Autonomy fraud trial Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 Two voice actors take legal action claiming their voices were stolen and cloned using AI. Read more now playing The voice cloning lawsuit Two voice actors take legal action claiming their voices were stolen and cloned using AI.
This video can not be played Want to turn your gaming hobby into a sustainable career?  ThatГўВҖВҷs exactly what Jordan Smith, who goes by the username Peeceful, did.  The 31-year-old gamer started with Call of Duty 4 on a laptop, before navigating his way through competitive gaming, streaming, and eventually leading a games company.  Putting together a portfolio of work, staying consistent and networking are among his top tips for budding gamers.  Video edited by Nathan Aviss Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Up Next. Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Watch: Moment road collapses from severe flash flooding. Video, 00:00:31Watch: Moment road collapses from severe flash flooding Dolly Parton surprised with Kentucky's highest honour. Video, 00:00:57Dolly Parton surprised with Kentucky's highest honour 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009. Video, 00:01:35'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina. Video, 00:00:49'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside. Video, 00:00:44Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats. Video, 00:00:38Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm. Video, 00:00:29Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm 'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire. Video, 00:00:41'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire People trapped in mid-air after ride malfunctions in Australia. Video, 00:00:37People trapped in mid-air after ride malfunctions in Australia Lake Tahoe sees first August snow in 20 years. Video, 00:00:31Lake Tahoe sees first August snow in 20 years Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Wales Two pedestrians and driver dead after car crash A driver in his 80s died along with a man and woman in their 60s who were visiting the area. Postcard delivered 121 years late reunites family Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM Over 2,000 workers apply for Tata Steel redundancy Rings of Power star slipped Welsh word into show Mother died of sepsis after misdiagnosis - report Efforts to cut NHS deficits in Wales 'not working' Van driver guilty of smuggling migrants on ferry Rees-Zammit linked to Jaguars move after Chiefs cut Rule-breaking politicians may get kicked out of Senedd Flat owner fears lives at risk in Wales after London cladding fire Police officer accused of kicking wife down stairs Oasis to release lost Definitely Maybe recordings US TikToker's mission to prove British food isn't bland Meet the Welsh athletes in ParalympicsGB 'I built a million-pound company in mum's house' Art capturing a disappearing industrial landscape Watch as young deer scurries through city streets. Video, 00:00:07Watch as young deer scurries through city streets Music fans react to Oasis' reunion in Cardiff. Video, 00:01:05Music fans react to Oasis' reunion in Cardiff Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Amy Dowden 'forever in fear of cancer returning' Video, 00:00:46Amy Dowden 'forever in fear of cancer returning' Tennessee TikToker loves Britain's food scene. Video, 00:01:09Tennessee TikToker loves Britain's food scene Rees-Zammit linked to Jaguars move after Chiefs cut Cardiff set to sign Simic and loan striker out Hathaway targets more Wales caps after summer tour County Championship: Glamorgan v Leicestershire. AudioCounty Championship: Glamorgan v Leicestershire FA charges Bulut after red card at Swansea Dau gerddwr a gyrrwr car fu farw ger pier Biwmares Dileu euogfarn cyn is-bostfeistr o Wynedd gafodd ei garcharu ar gam Cerdyn post 121 oed yn arwain at uno teulu  Claddu llwch un o gewri Hollywood yn Sir GГғВўr 5 cornel o Gymru ar ochr arall y ffin Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 AI is acting as a second pair of eyes for radiologists examining X-rays. Read more now playing Artificial intelligence helps doctors detect lung cancer AI is acting as a second pair of eyes for radiologists examining X-rays. The voice cloning lawsuit Two voice actors take legal action claiming their voices were stolen and cloned using AI.
This video can not be played Recovering from a stroke can be a long process, requiring hours of repetitive exercises to regain limb function.  Robotic "coaches" programmed to guide stroke and brain injury survivors through rehabilitation exercises could soon be tested in Scotland.  Using a headset worn by the participant, the Nao robot picks up patient brain waves to understand their intended movements and guide them through therapy.  Following the completion of this successful trial, the hope is to run others here in Scotland. It's already been successfully trialled in the Austrian capital Vienna as part of an international pilot study led by researchers from the UKГўВҖВҷs National Robotarium. Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Up Next. The robot dog taking on a nuclear reactor. Video, 00:01:27The robot dog taking on a nuclear reactor Meet Robbie, the walking talking robot guide dog. Video, 00:02:09Meet Robbie, the walking talking robot guide dog Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters. Video, 00:00:50Argentina police pepper spray pension protesters Watch: Moment road collapses from severe flash flooding. Video, 00:00:31Watch: Moment road collapses from severe flash flooding Dolly Parton surprised with Kentucky's highest honour. Video, 00:00:57Dolly Parton surprised with Kentucky's highest honour 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009. Video, 00:01:35'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina. Video, 00:00:49'Mind-blowing': Thousands bathe in tomato sauce at La Tomatina Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside. Video, 00:00:44Watch: Police drive through flaming Montana countryside Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats. Video, 00:00:38Watch: High-speed chase between Mexican navy and drug boats Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm. Video, 00:00:29Lightning strikes and a rainbow forms during Minnesota storm 'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire. Video, 00:00:41'Devastated': Bride-to-be lost wedding dress in tower block fire People trapped in mid-air after ride malfunctions in Australia. Video, 00:00:37People trapped in mid-air after ride malfunctions in Australia Lake Tahoe sees first August snow in 20 years. Video, 00:00:31Lake Tahoe sees first August snow in 20 years Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Scotland Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Jamie Stevenson admitted a plot to smuggle nearly a tonne of cocaine from South America to Scotland. UK government will not fight Rosebank oil field legal challenge Former lawyer convicted over vigilante dark web execution plot Glasgow nightclub The Shed to close after 26 years US court told of Nicholas Rossi DNA link to rape case Caley Thistle strike deal to avoid administration Man dies in hospital after Aberdeen stabbing NHS staff mobile numbers revealed in data breach Man, 38, dies in hospital after crash in Fife 'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes The peacocks that have been given the freedom of a city Dozens of storm-damaged houses could be demolished A nasty fall left me with a terrible snoring problem Bronze Age jewellery restored to glory after 4,000 years The people working to help Scotland's bats bounce back From King Tut's to Balloch: A look back at Oasis in Scotland Your pictures of Scotland See how to reconstruct a Bronze Age necklace. Video, 00:01:24See how to reconstruct a Bronze Age necklace Horizon scandal: 'Cleared 15 years after taking blame to protect mum' Video, 00:01:55Horizon scandal: 'Cleared 15 years after taking blame to protect mum' See inside Scotland's only vinyl pressing plant. Video, 00:01:30See inside Scotland's only vinyl pressing plant Growing up with dyslexia: 'What if I can't read?' Video, 00:02:27Growing up with dyslexia: 'What if I can't read?' Royal Marines Band surprise veteran for his 100th birthday A nasty fall left me with a terrible snoring problem Caley Thistle strike deal to avoid administration Man dies in hospital after Aberdeen stabbing Rescue package prepared for Olympian's first pool Dozens of storm-damaged houses could be demolished Hearts' Shankland a doubt for Plzen play-off - watch live on BBC Scotland What to expect from Scots at the Paralympics on Thursday What does new-look Champions League have in store for Celtic? Scotland's Hickey suffers injury set-back Nine Scots in field at British masters - leaderboard Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 The IOC announced the inaugural games will be hosted by Saudi Arabia. Not all are happy Read more now playing The Olympic esports games and Saudi Arabia The IOC announced the inaugural games will be hosted by Saudi Arabia. Not all are happy Artificial intelligence helps doctors detect lung cancer AI is acting as a second pair of eyes for radiologists examining X-rays. The voice cloning lawsuit Two voice actors take legal action claiming their voices were stolen and cloned using AI.
There are about 600 pigs on Quang Doan Hong's farm Quang Doan Hong is a busy person. The accountant, who lives with his family in HГҶВ°ng YГғВӘn, Vietnam, also owns a farm with about 600 pigs. HeГўВҖВҷs had to learn quickly about pig health, from which vaccines are effective to when to use antibiotics. ГўВҖВңWhen the weather changes, I give the pigs antibiotics,ГўВҖВқ Mr Hong says. In his experience, rapid changes between sunny and rainy weather make it necessary to administer antibiotics for respiratory and diarrhoeal diseases. Mr Hong has also had to learn which sources of information are reliable. HeГўВҖВҷs joined farming groups and done online research, although heГўВҖВҷs realised that some information on Facebook, for instance, isnГўВҖВҷt reliable. ГўВҖВңI need to filter it,ГўВҖВқ he explains. As his operation has grown, Mr Hong has become reluctant to have veterinarians visit. He worries about the risk of disease transmission from people who come into contact with animals at many different sites. Some large farms require animal health workers to quarantine for several days before visiting. The Food and Agriculture Organization encourages careful use of antibiotics One thing that would be useful to Mr Hong is a hybrid source of information: something that combines the expertise of veterinarians with the convenience of digital access. These kinds of remote veterinary technologies are under development. The team behind Farm2Vet, a veterinary app for farmers, recently won the top prize from the Trinity Challenge, a charity tackling global health threats. The competition that Farm2Vet won focused on antimicrobial resistance (AMR) ГўВҖВ“ the urgent global threat of our limited slate of antibiotic medicines becoming less effective as pathogens adapt. Farms where antibiotics are overused can become breeding grounds for antibiotic-resistant bacteria. These bacteria then enter the food system and the environment, for instance due to animal waste. Some drug-resistant bacteria, like certain strains of E. coli, can spread between animals and humans. ГўВҖВңAntibiotic misuse and overuse largely relates to a lack of understanding, a lack of support,ГўВҖВқ says Marc Mendelson, the director of the Trinity Challenge, who also heads the infectious diseases division at the University of Cape TownГўВҖВҷs hospital. Veterinary antibiotics can be extremely cheap, Prof Mendelson says. ГўВҖВңSome farmers probably donГўВҖВҷt even know that theyГўВҖВҷre giving antibiotics, because itГўВҖВҷs just in the feed.ГўВҖВқ Vietnamese regulations now require prescriptions for livestock antibiotics. But this requirement is relatively recent and difficult to monitor. In practice, antibiotics are dispensed without prescriptions, Pawin Padungtod acknowledges. Dr Padungtod, based in Hanoi, is the senior technical coordinator for the Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Diseases (ECTAD), a unit of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Helen Nguyen says only the bigger farms in Vietnam can afford vets Helen Nguyen grew up in Vietnam and now lives in US, where she is an environmental engineer at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Both countries have issues with the way antibiotics are given to farm animals, she says. In the US, medically important antibiotics are used for livestock far more often than theyГўВҖВҷre used for human beings. And in Vietnam, Prof Nguyen says, only larger farmers can afford or access veterinarians. Prof Nguyen and the rest of the Farm2Vet team are seeking to address these issues in Vietnam by working with farmers, veterinarians, and agricultural suppliers to develop a smartphone app that provides reliable information on animal care. There would be an AI-powered chatbot to answer relatively simple questions, and connections to veterinarians in more complex cases. ГўВҖВңThe technology that we are trying to produce doesnГўВҖВҷt replace vets,ГўВҖВқ according to Prof Nguyen. The aim is to allow veterinarians to expand their reach. She says that the challenge is not developing the technology, but accumulating the knowledge base. While there are Vietnamese-language veterinary publications, the amount of data required to feed the AI is likely to exceed whatГўВҖВҷs available in Vietnamese. Because so much of the published veterinary science is in English, itГўВҖВҷs important to carefully translate and localise the information, even to the provincial level. It will be years before the app is ready. Prof Nguyen says that while the app will be free for farmers to use, eventually, for financial sustainability, the aim is to allow advertising and a paid farming certification programme. Biosecurity experts want better ways to track the outbreak of animal diseases Also in Vietnam, the International Livestock Research Institute is designing a similarly named app, FarmVetCare. The idea is that using the app, farmers will report health abnormalities in livestock to a veterinarian. This is intended to help prevent and control animal diseases and diseases which can transfer between animals and humans. A different app is being piloted to extend the reach of the digital system for logging animal disease outbreaks through VietnamГўВҖВҷs Department of Animal Health. While the system now allows daily online reporting at the provincial level, the aim is to localise the reporting further, to be as close to the farm as possible. ГўВҖВңThe mobile application will then be very helpful because now they can start the reporting closer to the site of where the outbreak is,ГўВҖВқ Dr Padungtod says. Farmers may be reluctant to report veterinary diseases ГўВҖВңbecause they donГўВҖВҷt want to go bankruptГўВҖВқ, Prof Nguyen says. The Farm2Vet app would allow farmers to report veterinary illnesses anonymously, and the team would not provide identifiable data to anyone, according to Prof Nguyen. Prof Mendelson reckons such tools that can simplify the process of reporting, especially for subsistence farmers, are helpful. They may also help to prevent infection in the first place, which would cut down on the need for precious antibiotics. ГўВҖВңThe biggest bang for buck is in preventing infection ГўВҖВ“ and not only in humans, but in in livestock,ГўВҖВқ Prof Mendelson says. He comments that governments could encourage prevention by making vaccination more accessible. And farmers could reduce the chances of infection by giving farm animals more space. Prof Mendelson says, ГўВҖВңIntensive livestock farming increases stress on animals. It increases illness and risks.ГўВҖВқ While the tech world is full of well-meaning apps that end up being little used, Mr Hong, the pig farmer, has expressed interest. He appreciates the practicality and user-friendliness of apps. ГўВҖВңIf available, I would like to use them,ГўВҖВқ he says. Translations by Lam Nguyen Is carbon capture an efficient way to tackle CO2? What will future aerial dogfights look like? Why both businesses and scammers love India's payment system Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Asia Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan At least four people have died after the country was hit by one of its strongest typhoons in decades. HK journalists found guilty in landmark sedition case Floods in Indian state kill 28 and displace thousands MMA in Afghanistan? Too violent for the Taliban India approves $8.5bn Reliance-Disney entertainment mega-merger Sex abuse allegations rock Indian film industry Spanish actor's son jailed for gruesome murder Anger after strangers lock toddler in plane toilet Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant K-pop singer leaves boy band over sexual crime accusation AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales South Korea faces deepfake porn 'emergency' Why badminton has become code for teen sex in Hong Kong Sabina Shoal: The new flashpoint between China and the Philippines Why South Africans are flocking to a Chinese hospital ship Nostalgic Indians flock to cinemas to watch old hits Top-level meeting shows China - and Xi - still a priority for Biden Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Extremely Large Telescope under construction in Chile's Atacama desert High on a mountain, in Chile's bone dry Atacama desert the European Southern Observatory (ESO) is currently building the world's largest optical telescope. No time was wasted on choosing a name -  it will be called the Extremely Large Telescope or ELT. Instead, huge energy has gone into designing and building ГўВҖВңthe worldГўВҖВҷs biggest eye on the skyГўВҖВқ, which should start collecting images in 2028 and is very likely to expand our understanding of the universe. None of that would be possible without some of the most advanced mirrors ever made. Dr Elise Vernet inspecting the M5 mirror Dr Elise Vernet is an adaptive optics specialist at ESO and has been overseeing development of the five giant mirrors that will gather and channel light to the telescopeГўВҖВҷs measuring equipment. Each of the ELTГўВҖВҷs custom mirrors is a feat of optical design. Dr Vernet describes the 14ft (4.25m) convex M2 mirror as ГўВҖВңa piece of artГўВҖВқ. But perhaps the M1 and M4 mirrors best express the level of intricacy and precision required. The primary mirror, M1, is the largest mirror ever made for an optical telescope. ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs 39m [128ft] in diameter, made up of [798] hexagonal mirror segments, aligned so that it behaves as a perfect monolithic mirror,ГўВҖВқ says Dr Vernet. M1 will collect 100 million times more light than the human eye and must be able to maintain position and shape to a level of precision 10,000 times finer than a human hair. The M4 is the largest deformable mirror ever made and will be able to change shape 1,000 times per second to correct for atmospheric turbulence and the vibrations of the telescope itself that could otherwise distort imagery. Its flexible surface is made up of six petals of a glass-ceramic material that is less than 2mm (0.075in) thick. The petals were made by Schott in Mainz, Germany and then shipped to engineering firm Safran Reosc just outside Paris, where they were polished and assembled into the complete mirror. All five mirrors are nearing completion and will soon be transported to Chile for installation. While these enormous mirrors will be used to capture the light of the cosmos, ESOГўВҖВҷs neighbours in Garching, at the Max Planck Institute for Quantum Optics, have created a quantum mirror to operate at the tiniest scales imaginable. In 2020, a research team was able to make a single layer of 200 aligned atoms behave collectively to reflect light, effectively creating a mirror so small it cannot be seen by the naked eye.  In 2023, they succeeded in placing a single microscopically controlled atom at the centre of the array to create a ГўВҖВңquantum switchГўВҖВқ that can be used to control whether the atoms are transparent or reflective. ГўВҖВңWhat theorists predicted, and we observed this experimentally, is that in these ordered structures, once you absorb a photon and it gets re-emitted, it's actually emitted [in one predictable] direction and this is what makes it a mirror,ГўВҖВқ says Dr Pascal Weckesser, a postdoctoral researcher at the institute. This ability to control the direction of atom-reflected light could have future applications in a number of quantum technologies like, for example, hack-proof quantum networks for storing and transmitting information. The world's most precise mirror is made by Zeiss in Germany Further north-west in Oberkochen near Stuttgart, mirrors with another extreme property are being made by Zeiss. The optics company spent years developing an ultra-flat mirror which has become a key component in the machines which print computer chips, called extreme ultraviolet lithography machines, or EUVs. Dutch company ASML is the world's leading maker of EUVs, and Zeiss mirrors are an essential component of them. ZeissГўВҖВҷs EUV mirrors can reflect light at very small wavelengths which enables image clarity at a tiny scale, so more and more transistors can be printed on the same area of silicon wafer. To explain how flat the mirrors are, Dr Frank Rohmund, president of semiconductor manufacturing optics at Zeiss, uses a topographical analogy. ГўВҖВңIf you took a household mirror and blew it up to the size of Germany, the highest elevation point would be 5m. On a space mirror [as in the James Webb Space Telescope], it would be 2cm [0.75in]. On an EUV mirror, it would be 0.1mm,ГўВҖВқ he explains. This ultra-smooth mirror surface combined with systems that control the mirrorГўВҖВҷs positioning, also made by Zeiss, yield an accuracy level equivalent to bouncing light off an EUV mirror on the EarthГўВҖВҷs surface and picking out a golf ball on the moon. While those mirrors may already sound extreme, Zeiss has plans for improvement, to help make even more powerful computer chips. ГўВҖВңWe have ideas about how to develop EUV further. By 2030, the goal is to have a microchip with one trillion transistors on it. Today, we are maybe at a hundred billion.ГўВҖВқ That goal came closer with Zeiss's latest tech, which enables the printing of about three times more structures on the same area than the current generation of chip making machines. ГўВҖВңThe semiconductor industry has this dominating strong roadmap which provides a drumbeat for all players contributing to the solution. With this, we are able to provide progress in terms of microchip fabrication which today allows things like artificial intelligence which were unthinkable even ten years ago,ГўВҖВқ says Dr Rohmund. What humanity will understand and be capable of in ten yearsГўВҖВҷ time remains to be seen, but mirrors will no doubt be at the heart of the technologies that take us there. Is carbon capture an efficient way to tackle CO2? What's behind the global self-storage boom? What makes an athletics track fast? Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Once everywhere the magnetic keycard is being phased out As he slipped the key card into the reader on his hotel room door and tried the handle - to no avail - he realised what he had done. For years, Steven Murdoch, a security researcher at University College London, had taken care not to put tickets or cards with magnetic stripes in his pocket next to his smartphone. This is because the magnets in smartphones are sometimes strong enough to wipe the data on magnetic stripes. But so-called magstripe hotel key cards are rare these days, increasingly superseded by contactless cards with radio frequency identification (RFID) chips inside them. As such, during his hotel visit in January this year, Prof Murdoch forgot to take precautions and, he concludes, wiped his room key ГўВҖВ“ having used it only once. ГўВҖВңI should have known better, this is the sort of thing I do know about,ГўВҖВқ he says. Upon arriving back at reception, he realised he was not alone. ГўВҖВңThere was a queue of people with exactly the same problem as me,ГўВҖВқ he recalls. The magnetic stripe was invented by an IBM engineer, external in the 1960s ГўВҖВ“ his wife was instrumental in the process as it was she who suggested melting a strip of magnetic tape onto a card using a clothes iron. In the decades since, magstripes have been used on bank cards, rail tickets, IDs and even cards containing medical information, to set up hospital machines. But that murky brown strip of plastic usually made with polluting heavy metals may not be around for much longer.  From this year onwards, for instance, Mastercard will not require banks to put a magnetic stripe on debit and credit cards. For ticketing, new technologies including printable barcodes and reusable contactless cards are considered more environmentally friendly and potentially more convenient.  You also canГўВҖВҷt wipe them by accidentally putting them too close to your iPhone. There are, broadly, two kinds of magnetic stripe, called HiCo and LoCo. The latter is cheaper, less durable, and more susceptible to disruption from magnets, says Lee Minter, head of global operations at Nagels, which makes magstripe tickets and other products. Recently, the company investigated reports from a customer who said multiple magstripe tickets they had bought had got corrupted. Mr Minter says he canГўВҖВҷt be 100% sure but he and his colleagues are of the opinion that it was caused by part of a circular magnet within the customerГўВҖВҷs iPhone. ГўВҖВңIt matched perfectly to the area which had been wiped,ГўВҖВқ he says. In response, Apple says: "Smartphones and other items contain magnets or components that may have a risk of demagnetizing low coercivity cards. To prevent this from happening, users should keep these cards stored separately." Lee Minter's firm prints five billion tickets a year While such disruption remains relatively rare, Mr Minter says that the magnetic stripe is declining in popularity either way. Of the five billion tickets Nagels prints every year, less than one-fifth now have magnetic stripes, he estimates. Mr Minter is keen to stress the potential of thermally printed paper tickets, much like receipts, which are now being used in trials at multiple rail stations around the UK. These come with a QR code that can be used on ticket barrier scanners. There is a separate code on the back to stop people forging tickets. Stuart Taylor, head of commercial development at Northern, a train operator, says 70% of his firmГўВҖВҷs customers now buy digital tickets and that Northern could axe the familiar orange-trimmed, magstripe-sporting versions in just five yearsГўВҖВҷ time. ГўВҖВңThere is a clear environmental benefit,ГўВҖВқ says Mr Taylor. ГўВҖВңTimes change, I guess.ГўВҖВқ Northern is now trialling the thermally printed paper tickets made by Nagels as an alternative. There have been some issues with printer jams and the tickets getting stuck in ticketing machines but these problems have largely been addressed, says Mr Taylor. He emphasises that there are no plans to withdraw paper tickets, nor to cut any staff involved in ticket sales. Northern is considering axing the magstripe ticket Are there any benefits to keeping magstripe cards or tokens around?  ГўВҖВңNo,ГўВҖВқ says Sue Walnut, product director for intelligent transportation systems at Vix Technology, bluntly.  She argues there are now so many different ways of validating a rail ticket - for example, QR codes presented on phone screens, tickets printed at home, prepaid contactless cards - that there is less need to retain magstripe technology than ever before. But magstripe tickets and entry cards do slot conveniently into credit card holders in wallets and purses. The new paper tickets being trialled by Northern and other rail firms are larger. ГўВҖВңThey are a bit unwieldy and cumbersome,ГўВҖВқ says Ms Walnut. Magstripe has hung around for so long partly because it is relatively cheap and the specifications for reading machines were put in place many decades ago, says Stephen Cranfield at Barnes International, which makes equipment for magnetic stripe testing. ГўВҖВңIf you took your card today and used it in a magstripe reader from 1970, it would still be able to read it,ГўВҖВқ he says. His firm has worked on a variety of systems - including one designed to allow kidney failure patients to use a magstripe card for setting up their dialysis machine. Despite the ubiquity of dark brown or black magstripes, they can actually come in a whole range of colours. ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs quite popular in China, actually ГўВҖВ“ gold stripes,ГўВҖВқ explains Mr Cranfield. But now that US banks are finally switching to chip and PIN cards, the market for magstripe is clearly dwindling. Prof Murdoch says although magstripe technology is extremely well established, it is ГўВҖВңinevitableГўВҖВқ that it will gradually disappear. One downside to that, he suggests, is that magnetic stripe failures and fraud are currently well understood. Newer technologies, while in theory more secure, may also be more complex - and therefore exploitable by criminals using novel methods. Sometimes, members of the public contact Prof Murdoch when they are having trouble proving to their bank that they have been the victim of fraud. ГўВҖВңIf the transaction was done by magstripe, then itГўВҖВҷs a very easy argument to say someone copied it,ГўВҖВқ says Prof Murdoch as he points out the irony. ГўВҖВңBut if the transaction was one of the more secure methods - then itГўВҖВҷs much harder.ГўВҖВқ Is carbon capture an efficient way to tackle CO2? What's behind the global self-storage boom? What will future aerial dogfights look like? Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Comedian Anesti Danelis used AI to make his show for the Edinburgh Festival ГўВҖВңWhy did the politician bring a ladder to the debate? To make sure he could reach new heights with his promises!ГўВҖВқ Ask AI to write a political joke, and the above is an example of what you can get. Perhaps not funny enough to deliver on stage in front of a paying audience, but that doesnГўВҖВҷt mean there is no room for AI in comedy. Comedians are increasingly experimenting with the technology to write scripts and brainstorm ideas, including Anesti Danelis. Earlier this year, the Canadian asked popular AI chatbot ChatGPT to write him a show. The result is what he has been performing throughout this summer, including at this monthГўВҖВҷs Edinburgh Festival Fringe. The BBC sat down with Anesti after his sixth performance in seven days at the Toronto Fringe Theatre Festival in July. He explained the writing process behind his show ГўВҖВңArtificially IntelligentГўВҖВқ. ГўВҖВңI was playing around with ChatGPT, and the results it gave me were terribly hilarious, and I thought ГўВҖВҳmaybe there's a show in this?ГўВҖВҷ.ГўВҖВқ Despite some rubbish jokes, he says the tool was useful for brainstorming. ГўВҖВңI asked it to ГўВҖВҳwrite me five songs about bisexual dilemmasГўВҖВҷ, or ГўВҖВҳbeing an immigrant childГўВҖВҷ, and it gave me ideas that I would have never thought of.ГўВҖВқ What he wasnГўВҖВҷt expecting from AI was its understanding of how to devise a show. ГўВҖВңI told it to make me a running order, and it explained where every song should go and why, and it made total sense. I was surprised by how much it could explain the reasoning behind it.ГўВҖВқ Despite using the technology to write chunks of the script, AnestiГўВҖВҷs show very much relies on his delivery. Throughout the performance the comedian switches from a keyboard to a guitar to deliver songs and monologues. ThereГўВҖВҷs lots of interaction, including a serenading of an audience member, with a song written about them by ChatGPT. Reflecting on the experience, Anesti says: "I learned through the process that human creativity can't be replicated or replaced, and in the end about 20% of the show was pure AI, and the other 80% was a mix.ГўВҖВқ Getting an audience to laugh is a lot harder than you might imagine So far, he says, he has only had good feedback from audience members, including Olivia Smith and Bethany Radford, who both live in Toronto. Olivia admits sheГўВҖВҷs sceptical of AI, but enjoyed seeing it played with creatively. ГўВҖВңI think I'd feel a little cheated out of an experience if the entire thing was written by technology, but it was funny seeing AI on stage because it was creative,ГўВҖВқ she says. Bethany, who is an actor, agrees, and says: ГўВҖВңThere is a place for AI in creation and writing so long as itГўВҖВҷs transparent that itГўВҖВҷs been part of the process.ГўВҖВқ A recently released study from the University of Southern California found that AI-generated jokes outperform those crafted by human beings. Bethany, however, is not so sure, and feels ГўВҖВңhumans are pretty good at sniffing out AIГўВҖВқ. If she is watching something, she adds: ГўВҖВңI feel like I know when the writing had no human involved. But I'm sure that will change as it gets smarter.ГўВҖВқ Making audiences laugh is big business, and over the past decade the stand-up comedy market in the US has almost tripled, external in terms of the combined value of tickets sold. That is according to data from trade publication Pollstar, which monitors the live performance sector. It says US comedy ticket sales hit $900m (ГӮВЈ700m) in 2023, up from $371m in 2012.  Meanwhile, a separate study last month said that live comedy was now worth more than ГӮВЈ1bn, external a year to the UK economy. This figure includes not just ticket sales, but also the revenues of comedy venues and festivals, and the positive impact on the wider local economies. US comedian Viv Ford is also performing at this monthГўВҖВҷs Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Her show is called ГўВҖВңNo Kids On The BlockchainГўВҖВқ, and details her time living with ГўВҖВң14 tech-loving crypto [currency] bros in San FranciscoГўВҖВқ. Though she wrote the show herself, she explains she tested her material on ChatGPT. "I'll say, ГўВҖВҳhey, is this joke funny?ГўВҖВҷ. And if it says ГўВҖВҳitГўВҖВҷs funnyГўВҖВҷ, genuinely, it does not land with an audience,ГўВҖВқ says Viv. ГўВҖВңBut if it says a joke ГўВҖВҳis offensiveГўВҖВҷ it does so well. ГўВҖВңAnd sometimes ChatGPT will say ГўВҖВҳthe joke is fine, but could use some workГўВҖВҷ, in which case I toss it away and start again.ГўВҖВқ Viv knows that lots of people wonГўВҖВҷt be so embracing of AI in the arts. ItГўВҖВҷs a view she used to take until she lived in San Francisco, where so many tech firms are based. ГўВҖВңI'm so aware that the only reason I think this way is because of my four-year indoctrination in the school of San Francisco,ГўВҖВқ she says. ГўВҖВңI realised AI can be your weapon, just like Google can be your weapon. If you know how to use AI correctly, you are unstoppable.ГўВҖВқ Viv Ford would type out jokes and see what the AI thought of them Not everyone in the comedy world is keen to try AI though, including Kiwi-Filipino comedian James Roque. He says it doesnГўВҖВҷt fit with his approach to humour. ГўВҖВңMy belief and ethos is that the best comedy is the kind that is deeply human and vulnerable, and AI couldnГўВҖВҷt do that,ГўВҖВқ he says. Mr Roque is also performing at Edinburgh this month, and he thinks audiences will notice if other comedians use AI. ГўВҖВңThey can sniff out when something isnГўВҖВҷt authentic,ГўВҖВқ he says. ГўВҖВңSo if you havenГўВҖВҷt created it, I think audiences are smart and emotionally intelligent enough to know something is off in the show.ГўВҖВқ Could AI be the future of comedy? No one can be sure. Despite writing the majority of his current show with AI, Anesti Danelis isnГўВҖВҷt convinced he would do it again. He also has concerns for the next generation of comedians who might grow to rely on it. ГўВҖВңI think the dangerous thing about AI is that it can be a crutch,ГўВҖВқ he explains. ГўВҖВңIf youГўВҖВҷre an established comedian who knows your voice, AI gives good advice. But when you're a new comedian and you don't have that voice yet, you need to learn without AI. "Otherwise, a generation of comedians will be saying the same repetitive, distilled stuff.ГўВҖВқ Can technology fix the 'broken' concert ticketing system? Would-be reality TV contestants 'not looking real' Can we make work meetings more bearable? Would having an AI boss be better than your current human one? Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Phool dev Shahni makes a living harvesting makhana or lotus seeds Like his father and grandfather before him, Phool dev Shahni once made a living by diving to the bottom of 8ft-deep (2.4m), muddy ponds. "I used to dive in 7 to 8ft of water for hours a day - coming to the surface to breathe after 8 to ten minutes," explains Mr Shahni. While down in those murky depths he was harvesting the seeds of a type of water lily called euryale ferox. Known as makhanas, fox nuts or lotus seeds, they are prized for their nutritional value, being high in B vitamins, protein and fibre, with some touting them as a superfood, external. Often eaten as a snack, makhanas are also used in various dishes, including the milk pudding kheer, as well as being ground into flour. In the north-eastern Indian state of Bihar, where Mr Shahni lives, 90% of the world's makhana is grown. The leaves of the lily plant are large and circular and sit on the top of the pond. But the seeds form in pods under water and collecting them was an exhausting process. "While we are at the bottom diving, mud enters our ears, eyes, nose and mouth. Lots of us have skin issues due to this. Also the plant is covered in thorns, which give us cuts all over our body during harvesting of the seeds,ГўВҖВқ Mr Shahni says. But in recent years farmers have changed the cultivation process. The plants are now often grown in fields, in much shallower water. Harvesting seeds in just a foot of water means Mr Shahni can make twice as much money in a day. ГўВҖВңIt's still hard work but I am proud of my tradition. I have three children and I will make sure that one of my sons continues the legacy of working in a fox nut field.ГўВҖВқ A new superfood? This is how makhana looks before being roasted and popped Dr Manoj Kumar, is one of those behind the change in makhana cultivation. About ten years ago he realised it would be difficult to expand its cultivation in deep ponds. Now Senior Scientist at the National Research Centre for Makhana (NRCM), he helped to develop the cultivation of lilies in fields of shallow water. Over the last four or five years that technique has been taking off. "With our innovations, growing fox nuts is now as easy as any crop grown on land. The only amount of water needed is a foot. The workers donГўВҖВҷt have to work for hours in deep water," he explains. And after experiments with different seeds, his centre found a more resilient and productive variety, which he says has tripled the income of farmers. Dr Kumar says that makhana cultivation has helped some farmers cope with more uncertain weather conditions and floods that have hit Bihar in recent years.  Now NRCM is working on machines that can harvest the seeds. All that innovation has attracted more and more farmers. In 2022, the area used for fox nut farming was 35,224 hectares (87,000 acres), an almost threefold increase over 10 years.  Dhirendra Kumar switched his family farm to fox nut production Dhirendra Kumar is one farmer who has made a recent switch to makhana cultivation. Although he grew up on a farm, he didn't want to follow in his father's footsteps. "As farmers we always grew wheat, lentils and mustard but ended up losing a lot of money. "Most of the time floods destroyed the crops,ГўВҖВқ he says. While studying for a PhD, he came into contact with a scientist working on makhana cultivation and decided to experiment with the crop on his family farm. "The results were amazing. In the first year I made a profit of ГӮВЈ340 [US$432]," he says. Now he grows lilies on 17 acres (6.9 hectares) of land. "In my wildest dreams I did not think that I would get into growing fox nuts, as it was a labour-intensive job, which was mostly carried out by fishermen." The change in crop has also opened up job opportunities for women. Mr Kumar now employs about 200 local women who sow the seeds. "My aim is to provide jobs to as many farmers as possible so they donГўВҖВҷt leave farming because of uncertainty in agriculture,ГўВҖВқ he says. Indian firm Madhubani Makhana has developed its own makhana roasting machine It's not just in the field that innovations have been made. As well as being one of the leading cultivators of makhana, Madhubani Makhana, processes it for export all over the world. Traditionally, once the makhanas have been harvested, they are washed, roasted and then hit with a mallet-like tool to make them pop. "The method is crude, unhygienic and risky. It is laborious, time-consuming and a number of times leads to injuries and burns,ГўВҖВқ says Shambhu Prasad, the founder and chief executive of Madhubani Makhana. In partnership with the NRCM, his company has developed a machine which roasts and pops the fox seeds. "This has helped us increase the quality and the production of fox nuts,ГўВҖВқ says Mr Prasad. Three of the machines have been incorporated into his manufacturing plant in Madhubani, in the north of Bihar. While innovation in the farming and processing of makhana is increasing production, Mr Prasad does not think that will be enough to see prices fall. "Given the rising global demand for makhana, significant increases in production will be necessary to achieve any substantial reduction in prices," he says. Back on his farm, Dhirendra Kumar thinks that makhana cultivation will bring far-reaching change. "ItГўВҖВҷs the beginning of innovation in Bihar when it comes to fox nut harvesting. It will change the landscape of the state,ГўВҖВқ he says. Is carbon capture an efficient way to tackle CO2? Is AI the answer for better government services? The screen tech that can do almost anything Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The trust had said moving drugs by drones is faster and more environmentally friendly Residents near the proposed site of a drone medicine transport hub said they are "over the moon" that the plans have been withdrawn.  The hub, near Seghill and Northumbria Hospital in Cramlington, was earmarked to deliver medical supplies to NHS sites across Northumberland. An application attracted hundreds of objections and Andrew Edmunds, spokesman for Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, said people had been "listened to" before the decision was made. Andrew Maville, who lives at Middle Farm close to the site, said he was "delighted and relieved".  Mr Edmonds said the healthcare trust would continue to look for alternative sites. Many of the objections were over concerns about the impact of drones on a bridleway and wildlife  Mr Maville said the withdrawal had come "out of the blue".  "When we went along to the public consultation session, it seemed very likely they were going to go ahead," he said.  He had raised concerns about the impact on a nearby bridleway and wildlife. Another resident of Middle Farm, Steven Bradley, said: "We do feel they listened to us, and thatГўВҖВҷs really encouraging because sometimes you feel like these consultations are a tick box exercise." Feona Bowey, a representative of Cramlington Town Council, said she was "over the moon". "Up to 80 drones a day would have flown over my home and over East Cramlington Nature Reserve so it's just such good news they are looking for another site," she added.   Residents of the Middle Farm area feared the plan would increase traffic  Mr Edmonds of the healthcare trust added: "We made a commitment that we would listen to people, and we have done that as part of this decision," he said. "It is clear that there is also a great deal of support from the community and stakeholders to bring drones to Northumbria. "We believe that the use of drones will improve some of the healthcare services we provide in North Tyneside and Northumberland." Follow BBC North East on X, external, Facebook, external, Nextdoor, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. Drone flights carrying medical supplies to start Changes made to hospital drone hub after objections  NHS trust to deliver chemotherapy drugs by drone Research finds drones can deliver blood safely Northumbria NHS Foundation Healthcare Trust  Moment murderer Alder Willis tells his partner 'I'll see you in 15 years' time' after killing Andrew Darn RECAP: Person taken to hospital after crash closes busy Durham road 'Psycho' pensioner guilty of murder after 14-year dispute with business next door in North Shields Person taken to hospital after single-vehicle crash closes busy Durham road Paddle boarders urged to take safety precautions after being blown out to sea off the Northumberland coast Nominations wanted for Employer of the Year category in The Best in Northumberland Awards Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Tyne Surgeon struck off for grabbing colleague's breast Fabrizio De Rita can no longer practice after he was found to have sexually harassed a colleague. Residents 'relieved' as hospital drone plan pulled Appeal after man with saw tried to rob children Last trawler used in Falklands War to be scrapped  Couple 'on target' to visit every lifeboat station Plans to convert unit into weightlifting centre Prison bike repair shop aims to 'change the cycle' Hotel chain denies reselling rooms booked by Oasis fans Blood cancer patient finds funds for new research  Man again denies felling Sycamore Gap tree Jury goes home in 15-year-old girl murder trial Two charged with murder after body found in park Rapper represents North East at Reading & Leeds. Video, 00:02:03Rapper represents North East at Reading & Leeds Is 'pet' a patronising term to use? Video, 00:01:16Is 'pet' a patronising term to use? Full supermoon filmed in Northumberland. Video, 00:00:26Full supermoon filmed in Northumberland Great white shark boat spotted in Northumberland. Video, 00:01:52Great white shark boat spotted in Northumberland Bike drop! Reilly celebrates BMX silver after 'super technical' run. Video, 00:03:58Bike drop! Reilly celebrates BMX silver after 'super technical' run Today, High of 18ГӮВ° Low of 8ГӮВ° Friday 30 August,FriГӮВ 30th High of 19ГӮВ° Low of 7ГӮВ° Saturday 31 August,SatГӮВ 31st High of 17ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Sunday 1 September,SunГӮВ 1st High of 18ГӮВ° Low of 13ГӮВ° Monday 2 September,MonГӮВ 2nd High of 19ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Newcastle's Trippier announces England retirement County Championship: centuries for Surrey's Burns and Somerset's Abell New EFL Cup seeding system keeps apart clubs in Europe Tonali makes comeback as Newcastle knock out Forest Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Anna Nicholson: From Nissan plant to Paralympics. Audio, 4 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Anna Nicholson: From Nissan plant to Paralympics Oasis fan from Newcastle has hotel booking voided. BBC Radio Newcastle. Audio, 00:04:52Oasis fan from Newcastle has hotel booking voided BBC Radio Newcastle What next for Newcastle's Eldon Garden? BBC Radio Newcastle. Audio, 00:05:45What next for Newcastle's Eldon Garden? BBC Radio Newcastle 'In a small community, everybody looks out for each other' BBC Radio Newcastle. Audio, 00:03:12'In a small community, everybody looks out for each other' BBC Radio Newcastle Mam's outrage as 14-year-old's killer set to be freed early. BBC Radio Newcastle. Audio, 00:05:46Mam's outrage as 14-year-old's killer set to be freed early BBC Radio Newcastle Instagram TikTok Facebook X 'Psycho' pensioner guilty of murder after 14-year dispute with business next door in North Shields Person taken to hospital after one-vehicle collision on A690 in County Durham Person taken to hospital after single-vehicle crash closes busy Durham road Paddle boarders urged to take safety precautions after being blown out to sea off the Northumberland coast Nominations wanted for Employer of the Year category in The Best in Northumberland Awards Tommy Fury breaks silences after Molly-Mae split as he tells fans cheating rumours are 'horrendous' Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Text messages sent on the system are understood to have been compromised Several NHS staff in Scotland have had their mobile phone numbers revealed in a cyber security incident. It involved a third-party supplier to several health boards. NHS Grampian confirmed that staff phone numbers had been obtained.   NHS Dumfries and Galloway - which was seriously affected by a cyber attack earlier this year - also issued an alert to staff. NHS National Services Scotland said the "cyber incident" had been tackled promptly and there was no risk to patient data. Head of information and cyber security Scott Barnett said:  "Although the incident did not directly target any NHS Scotland board, some workforce data has unfortunately been compromised, affecting a small number of staff. ГўВҖВңImpacted staff will be notified and will receive appropriate advice and guidance from their respective NHS Scotland boards." More stories from South Scotland Listen to news from Dumfries and Galloway on BBC Sounds NHS Grampian said the breach had occurred with a supplier involved in the software used for staff scheduling and management. The health board said it understood that all text messages sent on the system over the past three months had been compromised. It said mobile numbers may have been obtained by "unknown individuals". NHS Grampian said the messages only contained generic information like shift confirmations and there was no personal data shared. NHS Dumfries and Galloway also issued an alert to staff who may have been affected, but declined to comment further. Workers have been advised to be vigilant for calls or texts from unknown numbers. NHS health board hackers unlikely to be convicted - police Fear 'Borders could become devoid of young people' as bids to mothball schools agreed Borders man admits uttering threats of violence towards police officers Driver who failed to give breath samples to police in Borders banned from road Woman shocked to discover car trapped after Dumfries parking spot sinks Dumfries and Galloway residents to have their say on renewable energy project Consultation on change of school week structure Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The merger will give the joint venture broadcasting rights for coveted cricket tournaments A $8.5bn (ГӮВЈ6.43bn) merger between Disney and Reliance Industries has been provisionally approved by the India's competition watchdog. The venture, in which billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Industries will have majority stake, will create India's biggest entertainment player which will compete with Sony, Netflix and Amazon. The joint venture will enjoy broadcasting rights for a majority of India's sports events, including coveted cricket tournaments. The merger is expected to be completed in the next six months and will be chaired by Mr Ambani's wife, Nita Ambani, according to reports. The deal is ГўВҖВңsubject to the compliance of voluntary modifications", India's competition watchdog said in a press release on Wednesday. It had previously raised concerns about the control this merger would grant the two companies over broadcasting rights for cricket, the country's most popular sport with a massive fan base. Streaming services offered by Disney and Reliance have been attracting Indian subscribers for years by providing free livestreams of cricket matches. According to Reuters news agency, the two companies have spent $9.5bn on TV and streaming rights for the Indian Premier League (IPL), T20 World Cups and matches held by the International Cricket Council.   The merger will create India's biggest entertainment company The competition watchdog had raised concerns that the new entity could increase advertising prices for these matches.  However, the two companies have reportedly pledged not to raise advertising rates excessively for cricket match streams. They have also said they would sell seven to eight of their non-sports TV channels  to balance out revenues, a source told Reuters.  With the merger, the two companies will also have Indian broadcast rights for the Wimbledon, MotoGP and the English Premier League or EPL. The deal "creates a huge digital entertainment giant", Gurmeet Chadha, managing partner of financial consultant Complete Circle, told CNBC-TV18 news channel.  "They have the content muscle and their tech capabilities are well-known. They have the reach in terms of distribution. They have the relative analytics and insight into what content is consumed where," he said.  In a country with 1.4bn people and 90% internet penetration, "this has huge, huge long-term implications," he added. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Proletarsk oil depot in Russia's Rostov region burned for 10 days after it was hit by a Ukrainian drone Western technology and finance are helping Ukraine carry out hundreds of long-range strikes inside Russia. That is despite Nato allies still refusing to give Ukraine permission to use Western-supplied munitions to do so ГўВҖВ“ mostly because of fears of escalation. Ukraine has been stepping up its long-range strikes inside Russia over the past few months, launching scores of drones simultaneously at strategic targets several times a week.  The targets include air force bases, oil and ammunition depots and command centres. Ukrainian firms are now producing hundreds of armed one-way attack drones a month, at a fraction of the cost it takes to produce a similar drone in the West.  One company told the BBC it was already creating a disproportionate impact on RussiaГўВҖВҷs war economy at a relatively small expense. The AQ 400 Scythe drone is made of wood and has a range of 750km The BBC has been briefed by a number of those involved in these missions. They include one of UkraineГўВҖВҷs largest one-way attack drone manufacturers, as well as a big data company which has helped develop software for Ukraine to carry out these strikes. Francisco Serra-Martins says the strategy is already creating huge dilemmas for Moscow. He believes that with extra investment, it will turn the tide of the war in UkraineГўВҖВҷs favour. Eighteen months ago, the company he co-founded, Terminal Autonomy, didnГўВҖВҷt even exist. It is now producing more than a hundred AQ400 Scythe long-range drones a month, with a range of 750km (465 miles). The company also makes hundreds of  shorter range AQ100 Bayonet drones a month, which can fly a few hundred kilometres. Ukraine thrown into war's bleak future as drones open new battlefront Pokrovsk: Ukraine's vital eastern town in Russian sights Gains in Russian territory shape Ukraine independence celebrations The drones are made of wood and are being assembled in former furniture factories in Ukraine. Mr Serra-Martins, a former Australian Army Royal Engineer, set up the company with his Ukrainian co-founder, backed by US finance. It is one of at least three companies now producing drones in Ukraine at scale. He describes his drones as ГўВҖВңbasically flying furniture ГўВҖВ“ we assemble it like IkeaГўВҖВқ. It takes about an hour to build the fuselage and half that time to put the brains inside it ГўВҖВ“ the electronics, motor and explosives. The companyГўВҖВҷs Bayonet drone costs a few thousand dollars. In contrast, a Russian air defence missile used to shoot it down can cost more than $1m.      It is not only cheap drones making the difference.  Palantir, a large US data analysis company,  was one of the first Western tech companies to aid UkraineГўВҖВҷs war effort. It started by providing software to improve the speed and accuracy of its artillery strikes. Now it has given Ukraine new tools  to plan its long-range drone strikes. British engineers from Palantir, working with Ukrainian counterparts, have designed a programme to generate and map the best ways to reach a target. Palantir makes clear it is not involved in the missions, but has helped train more than 1,000 Ukrainians how to use its software. The BBC has been shown how it works in principle. Using streams of data, it can map RussiaГўВҖВҷs air defences, radar and electronic jammers. The end product looks similar to a topographical chart. The tighter the contours, the heavier the air defences. The locations have already  been identified by Ukraine using commercial satellite imagery and signals intelligence. Louis Mosley of Palantir says the programme is helping Ukraine to skirt around RussiaГўВҖВҷs electronic warfare and air defence systems to reach their target. ГўВҖВңUnderstanding and visualising what that looks like across the entire battle space is really critical to optimising these missions,ГўВҖВқ he says. The execution of the long-range drone strikes is being co-ordinated by UkraineГўВҖВҷs intelligence agencies, who work in secrecy. But the BBC has been told by other sources about some of the detail.   Scores of drones can be fired for any one mission ГўВҖВ“ as many as 60 at one target. As well as military targets, Ukrainian drones have hit blocks of flats leaving some civilians wounded The attacks are mostly carried out at night. Most will be shot down. As few as 10% may reach the target. Some drones are even shot down along the way by friendly fire - UkraineГўВҖВҷs own air defences. Ukraine has had to work out ways to counter Russian electronic jamming. Terminal AutonomyГўВҖВҷs Scythe drone uses visual positioning ГўВҖВ“ navigating its course and examining the terrain by Artificial Intelligence. There is no pilot involved. Palantir software will have already mapped the best routes. Mr Serra-Martins says flying a lot of drones is key to overwhelming and exhausting RussiaГўВҖВҷs air defences.  So too is making the drones cheaper than the missiles trying to shoot them down, or the targets they are trying to hit. Prof Justin Bronk of the Royal United Services Institute says UkraineГўВҖВҷs long-range drone attacks  are creating dilemmas for Moscow. Although Russia has a lot of air defences, it still cannot protect everything. Prof Bronk says UkraineГўВҖВҷs long-range strikes are showing ordinary Russians that ГўВҖВңthe state canГўВҖВҷt defend them fully and that Russia is vulnerableГўВҖВқ.  Ukrainian drones have been spotted more than 1,000km (620 miles) inside Russia. They have been shot down over Moscow.  But the focus has been on military sites. The map below highlights just a handful of the dozen targets hit over the past few months. They include five Russian airbases. Prof Justin Bronk says targeting Russian airbases has so far been the only effective way Ukraine has to respond to RussiaГўВҖВҷs glide bombs.  It has forced Russia to move aircraft to bases further away and reduce the frequency of their attacks. Satellite imagery shows how Ukrainian drones have successfully damaged hangars at its Marinovka airbase. Ukraine clearly believes it could do even more with the help of Western-made long-range weapons. But so far, allies have rejected KyivГўВҖВҷs pleas.  There is still a lingering fear, especially in Washington and Berlin, that it could drag the West further into the conflict. But that hasnГўВҖВҷt stopped Western companies and finance from helping Ukraine. Ukraine is still largely having to rely on its home-grown efforts, convinced that bringing the war to Russia is a key to winning this war. Francisco Serra-Martins also believes Western manufacturers are still ГўВҖВңwoefully unpreparedГўВҖВқ to fight high-intensity warfare ГўВҖВ“ producing far fewer long-range weapons at a much higher cost. He says what Ukraine really needs now ГўВҖВңis a lot of good enough systemsГўВҖВқ.  The BBC has talked to one Ukrainian company which is already developing a new cruise missile, at least 10 times cheaper than a British-made Storm Shadow missile.  Despite the WestГўВҖВҷs misgivings, Ukraine is planning to step up its attacks on Russia. Mr Serra-Martins says: ГўВҖВңWhat youГўВҖВҷre seeing now is like nothing compared to what youГўВҖВҷll see by the end of the year." Ukraine war in maps: Ukraine's counter-offensive into Russian territory Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Manufacturers have been trialling the technology in remote locations such as Antarctica Urgent parcels and medical supplies could soon be delivered to isolated areas in Wales by drones to help speed up the process. Manufacturers have been testing out the technology in Eryri, also known as Snowdonia. The chief executive of drone company Windracers, Simon Muderack, said they hope to set up a partnership with postal services to be able to "connect to the people most in need". The UK government is currently considering allowing drones to deliver goods to rural areas to ensure remote regions are not left behind by advances in transport technology. UK set to have world's biggest drone superhighway UK's first drone mail service extended in Orkney  The project aims to deliver critical supplies to those who need it, which Windracers say will be just as cost-effective as traditional delivery routes.  Its ULTRA (Uncrewed Low-cost Transport), is a self-flying aircraft designed to carry 100kg packages over 600km (372 miles).  The company's aircrafts first flew in 2019 to transport medical supplies to the Isle of Wight.  Since then, Windracers have taken post and parcels to remote islands in Orkney and the Shetlands. A number of its drones can also be spotted flying around the company test centre in Llanbedr, Gwynedd.  Speaking to BBC Radio Wales Breakfast, Mr Muderack said the company hopes to manufacture on a larger scale in future. "Drones can make such a difference to people's lives ГўВҖВ“ especially those living in rural areas of Wales," he said.  "The uses for the platform are infinite. Over time this platform could fly anywhere in the world."   The first unaided drone service was completed in 2019 to deliver medical supplies  Windracers has worked with organisations including the Ministry, British Antarctic Survey and Royal Mail. Research is still in the test phase but they are confident that with more trails, delivery via aviation could really "take off".  "A key barrier to the plan will be regulating and managing the sky." said Mr Muderack.  "We want to gather more data, working with a regulator, to see how far we can take this."  There is increasing interest in aircraft delivery, as the first commercial drone mail service in Orkney was recently extended to 2026 to take letters and parcels between islands. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Kent Police said they seized a number of crypto ATMs at the Gadcet shop on Chatham's High Street The owner of a high street mobile phone shop has become the first person in the UK to be charged with operating an illegal cryptocurrency ATM, according to Kent Police. Officers carried out a search warrant at the Gadcet shop in Chatham's High Street on 28 April 2023, where they said they seized a number of crypto ATMs, including one on public display. Habibur Rahman, 37, of Langdon Crescent in East Ham, London, was arrested on the same day and has now been charged with operating the machine without registration from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He is also alleged to have laundered ГӮВЈ300,000 of criminal cash by converting it into cryptocurrency. Mr Rahman has been bailed to attend Medway Magistrates' Court on 10 October. Crypto ATMs are machines which allow customers to buy or convert funds into cryptoassets, but the FCA has previously warned they can be used to launder illegally obtained cash. There are currently no crypto ATMs registered with the FCA. Matthew Long, its director of payments and digital assets, said: "We continue to remind people that crypto remains largely unregulated and high risk; if you buy it, you should be prepared to lose all your money." Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, external, on X, external, and on Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk, external or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. Bitcoin cash machines ordered to shut down Watchdog cracks down on crypto ATM operators First Bitcoin ATM opens in Canada. Video, 00:02:09First Bitcoin ATM opens in Canada Kent Police Financial Conduct Authority Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Kent Small boat arrivals top 20,000 for year so far Over 600 people arrived on Wednesday, taking 2024's total to 20,434 for the year so far. Kent Fire and Rescue boss on issues facing county Lion rescued from Ukraine takes first steps outside Kent coastal flood defence project completed Appeal launched to repair Grade II listed church Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Couple 'on target' to visit every lifeboat station Trader 'first' in UK charged with operating crypto ATM More than 500 migrants cross Channel in one day Women's Institute to shrink for Hornby anniversary  Zara Aleena killer and prison worker appear in court 'My cancer was misdiagnosed for three years' Send us a message on 08081 002250 or tap below Today, High of 23ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Friday 30 August,FriГӮВ 30th High of 22ГӮВ° Low of 15ГӮВ° Saturday 31 August,SatГӮВ 31st High of 20ГӮВ° Low of 15ГӮВ° Sunday 1 September,SunГӮВ 1st High of 25ГӮВ° Low of 15ГӮВ° Monday 2 September,MonГӮВ 2nd High of 23ГӮВ° Low of 14ГӮВ° County Championship: centuries for Surrey's Burns and Somerset's Abell Former champion Raducanu 'sad' and 'down' after US Open exit Blaze beat leaders Vipers in Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy    Braintree Town 0-0 Ebbsfleet United Worcestershire beat bottom club Kent to ease fears Instagram TikTok Facebook X Car break-in ends in failure as vehicle refuses to start! Pub boss: ГўВҖВҳSmoking ban will not hammer another nail in the coffin for usГўВҖВҷ 450 homes approved on controversial farmland Folkestone patient joins ground-breaking MS trial at Kent & Canterbury Hospital Man airlifted to hospital after mobility scooter hit by car The terraced house that was home to townГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВҳsmallest cinemaГўВҖВҷ Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The information watchdog has formally reprimanded the Labour Party for failing in its data protection duties following a cyber attack. More than 150 complaints were made to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) about the handling of inquiries about personal data, known as Subject Access Requests (SARs).  An investigation revealed the problem developed in part because an email inbox containing hundreds of requests had not been monitored for 12 months, up to November 2021.  ICO deputy commissioner Stephen Bonner said the ability to request personal data was "a fundamental right", and provided "both transparency and accountability".  Watchdog to fine NHS IT firm ГӮВЈ6m after medical records hack Data watchdog drops Labour leak case "The public need to fully trust that a political party will handle their data correctly and respect their information rights," he said.  "We welcome news that the Labour Party has now cleared its backlog of SARs and implemented further measures to ensure people receive a prompt response going forward." A cyber attack on the Labour Party in October 2021 led to an increase in requests from the public, which it had an obligation to respond to within one month of receipt. However, monitoring of a "privacy inbox" related to the attack ended in November the same year, with no response provided to about 646 SARs and 597 requests for the deletion of personal information. Under data protection law, people have the right to ask an organisation if it is using or storing their personal information and receive a copy of any personal information held.  As of November 2022, the Labour Party had received 352 SARs, but 78% did not receive a response within the time limit of three months, and more than half (56%) were significantly delayed by more than one year. The ICO reprimanded Labour for failing to comply with its legal obligations and ordered an action plan to deal with the backlog, including hiring sufficient staff. Since then, the party has assigned three temporary members of staff to handle outstanding requests.  The ICO said the backlog had now been dealt with and Labour had implemented measures to ensure people received a prompt response in the future.  A Labour spokesman said: ГўВҖВңThe Labour Party has engaged fully with the ICO and undertaken comprehensive action to improve our processes in response to its findings.ГўВҖВқ Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Niamh McMullin has enjoyed what she has described as a "steep learning curve" Teenagers have been learning the music technology skills needed to put on professional shows. At The Gather in Ennerdale Bridge, Cumbria, a group have been taking part in a series of workshops funded by Arts Council England. The sessions equip them with the skills to polish the vocals and smooth the instrumental sounds of touring musicians. The scheme is the brainchild of retired headteacher, Peter Maher, who hopes it will improve the technical skills of those involved and provide some real-life experience. The group prepared for a gig, which was streamed around the world Mr Maher, who organised the workshop project in the west Cumbrian village, says he "knows of no other project like this". "It brings them in on day one at the level of novice, and by day five theyГўВҖВҷre equipped to fully manage the technical side of a performance," he added. Peter Maher, a retired headteacher, has been the project's driving force Youngsters like theatre-mad, 17-year-old Niamh McMullin from Cockermouth spent the week preparing for a full live show by musicians Snake Davis and Gareth Moulton. Miss McMullin said the project had been "a steep learning curve". "I think I was thrown in a bit at the deep end because IГўВҖВҷm not really from a technical or a musical background," she said. "I've always been interested in theatre and this is an extension of that." Meanwhile, 15-year-old Samuel Wrightson, from Carlisle, said he was keen to develop the skills needed to work in the music industry. "I just thought it would be a great opportunity to learn about the new systems and I haven't been able to do that before and I always love to do stuff like this," he said. Samuel Wrightson is hoping to work in the music industry in the future They were supervised by students already on music production, or similar, courses. The group worked together to prepare for a final night gig at The Gather which was streamed live to online viewers across the world. Saxophonist Snake Davis said he was always keen to help young people make their way in music. "These youngsters are potentially going to follow in our footsteps and look for employment within the industry," Mr Davis said. "To get an experience of real life, because this not a pretend gig, this is a proper gig and theyГўВҖВҷre sorting it out, is so valuable." For 14-year-old Daniel Bishop, it has been "the perfect week". ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs very exciting. I just feel quite privileged to be with such great people.ГўВҖВқ Daniel Bishop called the experience "a perfect week" Follow BBC Cumbria on X, external, Facebook, external, Nextdoor and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. Band borrows woman's home and slippers for shoot School children tackle e-bike safety with rap music. Video, 00:01:50School children tackle e-bike safety with rap music The Gather National Highways to complete major resurfacing of 50-year-old bridge Cyclist suffers chest injuries after crash in Lake District Plans for new car park at Cumberland Infirmary submitted to council Flooded road closed due to 'suspected' damaged culvert Driver had two illegal drugs in her system, court hears City centre shop closes its doors with plans to relocate yet to be confirmed Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Cumbria Fans gather for funeral of Barrow AFC's Brian Keen Fans line the street outside Holker Street and hold "three cheers for Brian". Seven days of continuous sewage discharge recorded Barrow draw Chelsea in Carabao Cup third round Bridge repairs expected to cause disruption Suicide prevention tour to return for second year Coastguard members awarded King's Coronation medal Nuclear site breaches hazardous material rules Music technology project teaches teens life skills Local election boundary consultation under way Tree-planting plans to help protect rainforest Man again denies felling Sycamore Gap tree Rail line hit by further flooding Today, High of 17ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Friday 30 August,FriГӮВ 30th High of 18ГӮВ° Low of 8ГӮВ° Saturday 31 August,SatГӮВ 31st High of 20ГӮВ° Low of 10ГӮВ° Sunday 1 September,SunГӮВ 1st High of 20ГӮВ° Low of 14ГӮВ° Monday 2 September,MonГӮВ 2nd High of 20ГӮВ° Low of 12ГӮВ° Club rep encourages autistic fans to attend games. Video, 00:01:42Club rep encourages autistic fans to attend games Thousands roll into town for annual soapbox derby. Video, 00:00:55Thousands roll into town for annual soapbox derby 'My home's a working museum piece, it's a gem' Video, 00:01:20'My home's a working museum piece, it's a gem' 'It was like a ghost village when we came in' Video, 00:01:27'It was like a ghost village when we came in' 'To go and play at the festival is fantastic' Video, 00:01:29'To go and play at the festival is fantastic' New EFL Cup seeding system keeps apart clubs in Europe Barrow reach third round of EFL Cup for first time since 1967-68 Carlisle sign winger Jones from Wigan Amor 'proud' after win for troubled Whitehaven Barrow 4-0 Port Vale The Windermere designer responsible for Oasis album art. BBC RADIO CUMBRIA. Audio, 00:09:17The Windermere designer responsible for Oasis album art BBC RADIO CUMBRIA Uniform banks helping kids go back to school. Audio, 00:03:29Uniform banks helping kids go back to school The Carlisle Derek Lacey tapes. BBC RADIO CUMBRIA. Audio, 00:06:57The Carlisle Derek Lacey tapes BBC RADIO CUMBRIA Lakeland wild camping menace. BBC RADIO CUMBRIA. Audio, 00:04:18Lakeland wild camping menace BBC RADIO CUMBRIA Secret Cumbria: The underground world of Carlisle station. Audio, 12 minutesSecret Cumbria: The underground world of Carlisle station Instagram TikTok Facebook X National Highways to complete major resurfacing of 50-year-old bridge Cyclist suffers chest injuries after crash in Lake District Plans for new car park at Cumberland Infirmary submitted to council Flooded road closed due to 'suspected' damaged culvert Driver had two illegal drugs in her system, court hears City centre shop closes its doors with plans to relocate yet to be confirmed Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Emergency services were called to Great Yarmouth on Tuesday evening A man has been arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving after a man was hit by a car on Great Yarmouth seafront. Norfolk Police said a white Tesla Model 3 struck a man in his 30s on South Beach Parade at 21:43 BST on Tuesday. The force added that a pedestrian "sadly died as a result of his injuries" and the driver of the Tesla, a man in his 20s, continues to be questioned by officers. The incident closed South Beach Parade for five hours. Police have urged, external witnesses or those with relevant dashcam footage to contact them. What stories would you like BBC News to cover from Norfolk? Follow Norfolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. Norfolk Police Driver, 24, high on cocaine was TEN times over drug drive limit 19-year-old moped thief in court after city crime spree Couple inspired by around the world sailing adventure opens showroom A47 shutting for 14-miles on city to coast route for roadworks Police give up search for group of teenagers who smashed up arcade machines ГўВҖВҳStaff and volunteers have worked tirelesslyГўВҖВҷ: Recreation ground wins international award Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Norfolk Three more cases of bluetongue disease confirmed The government confirms three more cases of bluetongue virus in Norfolk and Suffolk. 'Women and children not protected from male harm' 'Shoplifting is a tale we're very familiar with' Children paddleboarding in sea rescued 'Bluetongue stressful for all involved' - farmer Fan calls on Canaries to sort pigeon poo problem More than 1,000 homes for village granted permission Former city pub landlord convicted of rape Motorcyclist dies six weeks after ambulance crash Man charged with attempted murder after stabbing Investigation under way into cause of house fire Ogbene feels 'lucky' to be back in Premier League Today, High of 21ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Friday 30 August,FriГӮВ 30th High of 22ГӮВ° Low of 12ГӮВ° Saturday 31 August,SatГӮВ 31st High of 20ГӮВ° Low of 15ГӮВ° Sunday 1 September,SunГӮВ 1st High of 25ГӮВ° Low of 15ГӮВ° Monday 2 September,MonГӮВ 2nd High of 25ГӮВ° Low of 13ГӮВ° Palace see off Norwich in cup for first win of season Hull and Luton keen on Norwich winger Kamara Sheffield United deny Norwich in dull draw Norwich sign 'exciting' Danish teenager Schwartau Canaries sign young Croatian striker Crnac Pigeon poo problem at Carrow Road. BBC Radio Norfolk. Audio, 00:02:55Pigeon poo problem at Carrow Road BBC Radio Norfolk Expanded powers tackle street drinking in Norwich. BBC Radio Norfolk. Audio, 00:03:59Expanded powers tackle street drinking in Norwich BBC Radio Norfolk Paris: Grassroots to Glory. Norfolk, Alfie Hewett aims to ГўВҖВҳupgrade the silversГўВҖВҷ Audio, 3 minutesParis: Grassroots to Glory Norfolk Alfie Hewett aims to ГўВҖВҳupgrade the silversГўВҖВҷ Rivalries put aside for ГўВҖВҳfootball legendГўВҖВҷ BBC Radio Norfolk. Audio, 00:03:52Rivalries put aside for ГўВҖВҳfootball legendГўВҖВҷ BBC Radio Norfolk Three more cases of bluetongue disease confirmed Children paddleboarding in sea rescued 'Shoplifting is a tale we're very familiar with' 'Bluetongue stressful for all involved' - farmer Fan calls on Canaries to sort pigeon poo problem More than 1,000 homes for village granted permission Couple 'on target' to visit every lifeboat station Former city pub landlord convicted of rape Motorcyclist dies six weeks after ambulance crash Investigation under way into cause of house fire Man charged with attempted murder after stabbing Man dies after collision with Tesla on seafront road Staff details stolen in poultry factory cyber attack Money raised in memory of local football legend  Children's hospital could be built in 2026 Hull and Luton keen on Norwich winger Kamara Fears for future of free school holiday classes  Man's body found in river close to city centre Criticism over lights switch-off at crash hotspot Inquiry to determine fate of disputed coastal path 1966: August Bank Holiday seaside spending challenge  Video, 00:04:471966: August Bank Holiday seaside spending challenge  Has the mystery of a beach 'ghost' railway been solved? Visitors given a close-up view of castle repairs Truckers convoy for children returns for 37th trip Instagram TikTok Facebook X Driver, 24, high on cocaine was TEN times over drug drive limit 19-year-old moped thief in court after city crime spree Couple inspired by around the world sailing adventure opens showroom A47 shutting for 14-miles on city to coast route for roadworks Police give up search for group of teenagers who smashed up arcade machines ГўВҖВҳStaff and volunteers have worked tirelesslyГўВҖВҷ: Recreation ground wins international award Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Greater Manchester councils were targeted at the start of August  A council housing register remains suspended weeks after it fell victim to a cyber attack, leaving thousands of residents vulnerable to a phishing scam.  Salford City CouncilГўВҖВҷs housing register is still down after a "cyber breach" on 2 August which left 5,200 people without access. Salford Home Search users have said they have not been able to use the system since, with one user saying the register was the "only way we can get a home". The local authority said the problem has been addressed, and the housing register would be back up and running soon. A 42-year-old named Pre, who did not want use his surname, told the Local Democracy Reporting Service he was living in temporary accommodation and looking for a permanent home on Salford Home Search after previously being on the streets. He added: ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs the only way we can get a home at the moment, I have to go through Salford Home Search. ГўВҖВңBut IГўВҖВҷm not able to access it and thereГўВҖВҷs been no alternative.ГўВҖВқ The cyber attack earlier this month also hit housing registers in Manchester and Bolton, with users told to monitor their bank accounts for suspicious activity. They were also told to change any passwords that were the same as the one used to access Salford Home Search. Salford City Council apologised after the incident, which it said came from a ГўВҖВңvulnerability in the third party software suppliers website.ГўВҖВқ A council spokeswoman said the software behind Salford Home Search was managed and maintained by a third party company and the issues had affected other councils nationally. ГўВҖВңThe company has now announced that the problem has been identified and addressed, after some intensive testing," she said. ГўВҖВңThis means the council can start to use the software again and we will bring the website back online soon.ГўВҖВқ Listen to the best of BBC Radio Manchester on Sounds and follow BBC Manchester on Facebook, external, X, external, and Instagram, external. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk, external Cyber attack leaves thousands vulnerable to phishing scam Council 'at mercy of criminal hackers' - report Police looking for man after "harassment" incident at The Range Rochdale venues unite for ГўВҖВҳPlates & PoursГўВҖВҷ wine tour Oldham man charged with firearm offence Runner stops in Warrington on mammoth tour of England that has raised ГӮВЈ20k Graduate Graphic Designer / Art Worker Police close major road in south Warrington following crash Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Manchester Arsonists set themselves on fire as they target shop One man pours petrol and the other sets it alight but as flames erupt they get scorched themselves.  Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Harry Styles viaduct protected from 'well-meaning damage' Newcastle's Trippier announces England retirement Deal struck for re-development of former police HQ Free Sunday and evening parking set to be scrapped Medic saw 'apocalyptic' scenes during Gaza mission Hotel chain denies reselling rooms booked by Oasis fans Oasis reunion 'could be worth ГӮВЈ15m to home city' Why do we care so much about Oasis? Manchester 'buzzing' to welcome back Oasis Fans react to 'massive' news of Oasis reunion tour Bid to turn ex-pub into 15-bed house knocked back Oasis Definitely Maybe artwork 'will live forever' Housing register still down weeks after cyber attack Crime down at Creamfields festival despite 32 arrests NHS warns of continued short supply of blood  Amount of cannabis seized at UK airports triples City council considers cuts amid ГӮВЈ50m shortfall Johnny Marr uses Nigel Farage image to dismiss reunion talk Town to hold first ever Joy Division Day  Sports stadium buyout moves a step closer A bomb, gang turf wars and the rise of club culture - poet, author and broadcaster David Scott looks at Manchester in the 1990s Today, High of 18ГӮВ° Low of 8ГӮВ° Friday 30 August,FriГӮВ 30th High of 21ГӮВ° Low of 10ГӮВ° Saturday 31 August,SatГӮВ 31st High of 21ГӮВ° Low of 13ГӮВ° Sunday 1 September,SunГӮВ 1st High of 22ГӮВ° Low of 15ГӮВ° Monday 2 September,MonГӮВ 2nd High of 21ГӮВ° Low of 12ГӮВ° County Championship: centuries for Surrey's Burns and Somerset's Abell Listen to live BBC radio commentaries and follow live text coverage of day one of the County Championship. New EFL Cup seeding system keeps apart clubs in Europe Burnley sign midfielder Hannibal from Manchester United  Wigan sign Forest striker Taylor on loan Man Utd hold talks with Chelsea over Sterling deal 'When I win the ball, I'm happy' - who is incoming Man Utd midfielder Ugarte? Man Utd agree ГӮВЈ50m deal to sign Ugarte from PSG North West Tonight BBC Radio Manchester Manchester City The DevilsГўВҖВҷ Advocate: A Manchester United Podcast This video can not be played  On the latest episode of You'll Never Beat Kyle Walker, Manchester City's former Tottenham full-back reflects on how he almost got to train with David Beckham at Spurs. Listen to a full episode here Interim head coach Lee Carsley has named his first England squad for September's Nations League games against the Republic of Ireland and Finland. Newcastle defender Tino Livramento, Nottingham Forest's Morgan Gibbs-White, Lille's Angel Gomes and Chelsea's Noni Madueke are the four new caps named. Dale O'DonnellFan writer This video can not be played  You can hear more from Dale O'Donnell at Stretty News here, external The transfer deadline is almost upon us, so tell us what you've made of your club's business and if more is needed? Send your thoughts here, external The transfer deadline is almost upon us, so tell us what you've made of your club's business and if more is needed? Send your thoughts here, external Erling Haaland has scored 16 goals in 10 Premier League appearances in August, averaging a goal every 52 minutes - the best minutes-per-goal ratio by a player in a particular month in Premier League history (minimum 500 minutes played). England winger Jadon Sancho, 24, is set to move to Juventus from Manchester United on loan with an obligation to buy. (RMC Sport), external Want more transfer stories? Read Thursday's full gossip column Manchester City's Burkina Faso right-back Issa Kabore, 23, is set to complete a season-long loan move to Benfica. (Sky Sports), external Want more transfer stories? Read Thursday's full gossip column The draw has been made for the Carabao Cup third round, with 17 Premier League clubs having made it through or entering at this stage. There are three all-Premier League fixtures, including holders Liverpool hosting West Ham in a repeat of last season's quarter-final. Ties will be played in the weeks commencing 16 September and 23 September. All the fixtures featuring top-flight sides are shown below: AFC Wimbledon v Newcastle United Arsenal v Bolton Wanderers Brentford v Leyton Orient Brighton & Hove Albion v Wolverhampton Wanderers Chelsea v Barrow Coventry City v Tottenham Hotspur Everton v Southampton Liverpool v West Ham United Manchester City v Watford Manchester United v Barnsley Preston North End v Fulham Queens Park Rangers v Crystal Palace Walsall v Leicester City Wycombe Wanderers v Aston Villa See the full draw Simon StoneChief football news reporter Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola has given a ГӮВЈ10,000 bonus to each member of his first-team support staff as a gesture of appreciation for their work last season. The gift was received by all City staff who work in the first-team building at the City Football Academy within the Etihad Campus. Sources say the money came directly from Guardiola, with the overall total outlay in excess of ГӮВЈ500,000. It is understood to include kit men, security staff and physios. The City boss often uses his pre-match news conferences to highlight the wider contribution beyond himself and his immediate coaches in delivering a squad that consistently hits such high standards. Last season, City became the first team in English football to win the league title in four consecutive seasons. They also reached the Champions League quarter-finals for the seventh successive season. They have also reached at least the semi-finals of the FA Cup for the past five years. Instagram TikTok Facebook X Police looking for man after "harassment" incident at The Range Rochdale venues unite for ГўВҖВҳPlates & PoursГўВҖВҷ wine tour Oldham man charged with firearm offence Runner stops in Warrington on mammoth tour of England that has raised ГӮВЈ20k Graduate Graphic Designer / Art Worker Police close major road in south Warrington following crash Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Many of the victims and perpetrators in South Korea are underage South KoreaГўВҖВҷs president has urged authorities to do more to ГўВҖВңeradicateГўВҖВқ the countryГўВҖВҷs digital sex crime epidemic, amid a flood of deepfake pornography targeting young women. Authorities, journalists and social media users recently identified a large number of chat groups where members were creating and sharing sexually explicit "deepfake" images ГўВҖВ“ including some of underage girls. Deepfakes are generated using artificial intelligence, and often combine the face of a real person with a fake body. South KoreaГўВҖВҷs media regulator is holding an emergency meeting in the wake of the discoveries. South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol on Tuesday instructed authorities to "thoroughly investigate and address these digital sex crimes to eradicate them". "Recently, deepfake videos targeting an unspecified number of people have been circulating rapidly on social media," President Yoon said at a cabinet meeting. "The victims are often minors and the perpetrators are mostly teenagers." The spate of chat groups, linked to individual schools and universities across the country, were discovered on the social media app Telegram over the past week. Users, mainly teenage students, would upload photos of people they knew ГўВҖВ“ both classmates and teachers ГўВҖВ“ and other users would then turn them into sexually explicit deepfake images. The discoveries follow the arrest of the Russian-born founder of Telegram, Pavel Durov, on Saturday, after it was alleged that child pornography, drug trafficking and fraud were taking place on the encrypted messaging app. South Korea has a dark history of digital sex crimes. In 2019 it emerged that men were using a Telegram chatroom to blackmail dozens of young women into performing sexual acts, in a scandal known as nth-room. The groupГўВҖВҷs ring-leader, Cho Ju-bin, was sentenced to 42 years in jail. Online deepfake sex crimes have surged, according to South Korean police. A total of 297 cases were reported in the first seven months of this year, up from 180 in the whole of last year and 160 in 2021. Teenagers were responsible for more than two-thirds of the offences over the past three years. The Korean Teachers Union, meanwhile, believes more than 200 schools have been affected in this latest string of incidents. The number of deepfakes targeting teachers has surged in the past couple of years, according to the Ministry of Education. Park Ji-hyun, a womenГўВҖВҷs rights activist and former interim leader of the main opposition Democratic Party, said the government needed to declare a "national emergency" in response to South Korea's deepfake porn problem. "Deepfake sexual abuse materials can be created in just one minute, and anyone can enter the chatroom without any verification process," Ms Park wrote on X. "Such incidents are occurring in middle schools, high schools, and universities across the country." To build a "healthy media culture", President Yoon said young men needed to be better educated. ГўВҖВңAlthough it is often dismissed as ГўВҖВҳjust a prank,ГўВҖВҷ it is clearly a criminal act that exploits technology to hide behind the shield of anonymity," he said. KoreaГўВҖВҷs media regulator is meeting on Wednesday to discuss how to tackle this latest crisis, but opponents of the government have questioned whether it is up to the job. "I don't believe this government, which dismisses structural gender discrimination as mere 'personal disputes', can effectively address these issues," Bae Bok-joo, a women's rights activist and a former member of the minor Justice Party, told the AFP news agency. Before coming into office, President Yoon said South Korean women did not suffer from "systemic gender discrimination", despite evidence to the contrary. Women hold just 5.8% of the executive positions in South Korea's publicly listed companies, and are paid on average a third less than South Korean men - giving the country the worst gender pay gap of any rich nation in the world.  To this can be added a pervasive culture of sexual harassment, fuelled by the booming tech industry, which has contributed to an explosion of digital sex crimes.  These have previously included cases of women being filmed by tiny hidden cameras, or "spycams", as they used the toilet or undressed in changing rooms. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Banham Poultry said its systems were accessed remotely on 18 August Staff at a poultry factory in Norfolk have had their personal details stolen in a cyber attack. Banham Poultry, based in Attleborough, said criminals had remotely accessed its system in the early hours of 18 August. In an email sent to staff, seen by the BBC, the company said information such as National Insurance numbers, copies of passports and bank details were accessed. The company said it was providing staff with advice on credit monitoring and fraud detection following the security breach. "The factory is operating as normal and as a precaution we have scanned systems to ensure security integrity," a spokesperson said. "Colleagues are being paid as normal." Banham Poultry employs about 600 people at its 12-acre (nearly five-hectare) factory, which supplies chicken to major supermarkets. It said it immediately shut down its systems and "engaged external forensic specialists" following the cyber attack. "We are not aware of anyone's information being used maliciously, or of any individual suffering any detriment as a result of the incident," the email from the company's HR department said. "If, in the unlikely event, the data is published on the 'dark web' it is extremely difficult to access. "We consider that the risk of any financial fraud being suffered by you is very low, although we cannot eliminate the possibility entirely." The company turns over about ГӮВЈ100m a year and processes about 650,000 chickens each week The company said it had reported the incident to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) and had installed "additional security". According to the ICO, "more organisations than ever, external" are experiencing cyber attacks. Last year it recorded 3,283 incidents, up from 2,156 in 2022. Cases of ransomware ГўВҖВ“ when criminals unlawfully encrypt files and demand a ransom to unencrypt files ГўВҖВ“ rose by 66%. Banham Poultry, part of the 2 Sisters Food Group, refused to say whether the cyber attack involved ransomware, but in the email to staff it added: "In most instances the criminals responsible are looking to gain money from companies rather than individuals." The Unite union, which represents some employees at Banham Poultry, said it had not been contacted by any of its members with concerns. The ICO confirmed it had been contacted by Banham Poultry and would be "making enquiries". What stories would you like BBC News to cover from Norfolk? Follow Norfolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. Companies in court over deaths at chicken factory Company fined after town plagued by abattoir smell Banham Poultry Information Commissioner's Office Driver, 24, high on cocaine was TEN times over drug drive limit 19-year-old moped thief in court after city crime spree Couple inspired by around the world sailing adventure opens showroom A47 shutting for 14-miles on city to coast route for roadworks Police give up search for group of teenagers who smashed up arcade machines ГўВҖВҳStaff and volunteers have worked tirelesslyГўВҖВҷ: Recreation ground wins international award Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The drone service was launched last year The UK's first commercial drone mail service, in Orkney, is to be extended to 2026, it has been announced. The Orkney I-Port operation was launched by Royal Mail and drone firm Skyports in August last year. The electric drones take letters and parcels between islands, where staff then complete their usual delivery routes. The service will now run until at least February 2026. More stories from North East Scotland, Orkney and Shetland Listen to news from North East Scotland on BBC Sounds Poor weather and the area's geography can often cause disruption to deliveries in Orkney.  The aim of the drone service has been to improve delivery times and service levels. A daily inter-island mail distribution delivery was established between Stromness, in the Orkney mainland, and the islands of Graemsay and Hoy. There have been more than 500 flights so far. Alex Brown, director of Skyports Drone Services, said: "Our Orkney flights with Royal Mail demonstrate the viability of long-term drone operations and highlight the role that new aviation technologies can play in supporting essential public services." He said the next phase of work in Orkney would explore how 5G could support drone operations in "harsh rural environments" and aid other future projects. Chris Paxton, the Universal Service Obligation (USO) programme manager at Royal Mail, said the "successful trial" meant deliveries were quicker, more reliable and more environmentally-friendly. Councillor Kristopher Leask, chairman of Orkney's development and infrastructure committee, added: "The now proven operational ability of drone delivery technology for our postal service has shown how island communities can benefit from innovation." Last week, it was announced NHS lab specimens had been flown by drone for the first time in Scotland between two health boards. The flight took place between the Edinburgh BioQuarter next to the city's Royal Infirmary, and Borders General Hospital in Melrose. The trial - involving NHS Lothian and NHS Borders - was part of Project CAELUS - led by AGS Airports in partnership with NHS Scotland. The aim is to cut the time it takes to deliver the specimens which are used to inform urgent clinical decision-making. Drones fly NHS lab specimens in Scottish first UK's first drone mail service begins in Orkney Drones used to deliver post to remote island Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser CCTV fitted in park following series of ГўВҖВҳabsolutely mindlessГўВҖВҷ vandal attacks Boss praises ГўВҖВҳexcellentГўВҖВҷ performance in derby victory New CCTV at Elgin's Cooper Park 'could catch vandals who smashed coping stones into pond' 'He'll be missed by all': Family tribute after man stabbed at Aberdeen high-rise dies Appeal from police after motorcyclist critically injured in crash ГўВҖВҳThe last supperГўВҖВҷ - We try iconic century-old chippy before it closes for final time Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow NE, Orkney & Shetland Man dies in hospital after Aberdeen stabbing Jacek Dembinski, 44, had been found seriously hurt outside the city's Rosehill Court. UK government will not fight Rosebank oil field legal challenge 'Windiest part of the UK' could power nearly 500,000 homes NHS staff mobile numbers revealed in data breach Orkney student drowns after replica Viking boat sinks Biker, 70, critical after crash in Aberdeenshire Man jailed for ГӮВЈ300,000 Aberdeen drugs haul Your pictures of Scotland: 16 - 23 August Do you have a story to share with BBC News?  Click here to listen to local news on BBC Sounds Part of hospital evacuated following  fire Operations cancelled after lightning damages equipment Hollywood director spooked by 'haunted' Aberdeen hotel 'I was terrified' - Saoirse Ronan learns lambing for The Outrun Lost wreck of WW1 warship found in 'remarkable' condition In pictures: Scotland's mountain highliners University adopts gender violence charter in late student's name Today, High of 17ГӮВ° Low of 6ГӮВ° Friday 30 August,FriГӮВ 30th High of 17ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Saturday 31 August,SatГӮВ 31st High of 16ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Sunday 1 September,SunГӮВ 1st High of 15ГӮВ° Low of 12ГӮВ° Monday 2 September,MonГӮВ 2nd High of 17ГӮВ° Low of 11ГӮВ° Icons of Football: Willie Miller. Video, 28 minutesIcons of Football: Willie Miller Beechgrove Garden. Video, 28 minutesBeechgrove Garden These Islands Now Culture Scene - Granite Harbour's Hannah Donaldson. Audio, 38 minutesCulture Scene - Granite Harbour's Hannah Donaldson Instagram TikTok Facebook X CCTV fitted in park following series of ГўВҖВҳabsolutely mindlessГўВҖВҷ vandal attacks Boss praises ГўВҖВҳexcellentГўВҖВҷ performance in derby victory New CCTV at Elgin's Cooper Park 'could catch vandals who smashed coping stones into pond' 'He'll be missed by all': Family tribute after man stabbed at Aberdeen high-rise dies Appeal from police after motorcyclist critically injured in crash ГўВҖВҳThe last supperГўВҖВҷ - We try iconic century-old chippy before it closes for final time Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The drone service was launched last year The UK's first commercial drone mail service, in Orkney, is to be extended to 2026, it has been announced. The Orkney I-Port operation was launched by Royal Mail and drone firm Skyports in August last year. The electric drones take letters and parcels between islands, where staff then complete their usual delivery routes. The service will now run until at least February 2026. More stories from North East Scotland, Orkney and Shetland Listen to news from North East Scotland on BBC Sounds Poor weather and the area's geography can often cause disruption to deliveries in Orkney.  The aim of the drone service has been to improve delivery times and service levels. A daily inter-island mail distribution delivery was established between Stromness, in the Orkney mainland, and the islands of Graemsay and Hoy. There have been more than 500 flights so far. Alex Brown, director of Skyports Drone Services, said: "Our Orkney flights with Royal Mail demonstrate the viability of long-term drone operations and highlight the role that new aviation technologies can play in supporting essential public services." He said the next phase of work in Orkney would explore how 5G could support drone operations in "harsh rural environments" and aid other future projects. Chris Paxton, the Universal Service Obligation (USO) programme manager at Royal Mail, said the "successful trial" meant deliveries were quicker, more reliable and more environmentally-friendly. Councillor Kristopher Leask, chairman of Orkney's development and infrastructure committee, added: "The now proven operational ability of drone delivery technology for our postal service has shown how island communities can benefit from innovation." Last week, it was announced NHS lab specimens had been flown by drone for the first time in Scotland between two health boards. The flight took place between the Edinburgh BioQuarter next to the city's Royal Infirmary, and Borders General Hospital in Melrose. The trial - involving NHS Lothian and NHS Borders - was part of Project CAELUS - led by AGS Airports in partnership with NHS Scotland. The aim is to cut the time it takes to deliver the specimens which are used to inform urgent clinical decision-making. Drones fly NHS lab specimens in Scottish first UK's first drone mail service begins in Orkney Drones used to deliver post to remote island Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser CCTV fitted in park following series of ГўВҖВҳabsolutely mindlessГўВҖВҷ vandal attacks Boss praises ГўВҖВҳexcellentГўВҖВҷ performance in derby victory New CCTV at Elgin's Cooper Park 'could catch vandals who smashed coping stones into pond' 'He'll be missed by all': Family tribute after man stabbed at Aberdeen high-rise dies Appeal from police after motorcyclist critically injured in crash ГўВҖВҳThe last supperГўВҖВҷ - We try iconic century-old chippy before it closes for final time Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The cyber attack means Canvey Island Infant School will remain closed for an extra day of the school holidays An Essex infant school says its IT system has been compromised after being hit by a cyber attack during the summer holiday. Canvey Island Infant School - whose pupils are between five and seven years old - has reported the incident to the National Cyber Security Centre. Its headteacher says it has made the ГўВҖВңdifficult decisionГўВҖВқ to close the school for an additional day on Tuesday 3 September. The cyber attack means teachers have been unable to prepare for the new term as they do not have access to resources on the schoolГўВҖВҷs system. ГўВҖВңWhile we have taken all of the precautionary security measures to deal with any such cyber threat, this attack has resulted in the schoolГўВҖВҷs IT system being compromised," headteacher Sandra Dorrington said in a statement. ГўВҖВңOur IT support staff are working hard to resolve the issue and have already made significant progress in restoring systems.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңHowever, we have made the difficult decision to close the school for an additional day on Tuesday 3 September,ГўВҖВқ the statement continued. ГўВҖВңThis will enable us to further resolve the issues caused by the attack and allow teaching staff additional time to prepare for their new class, given they do not have access to resources stored on the school system.ГўВҖВқ Ms Dorrington said that parents had been contacted directly and would be updated in due course. ГўВҖВңWe apologise for the inconvenience this will cause and thank our pupils and their families for their patience and understanding,ГўВҖВқ Ms Dorrington added.  The school's website displays a message asking people not to send emails but to call instead A message on the schoolГўВҖВҷs website says: ГўВҖВңWe have no access to emails at the momentГўВҖВқ and encourages parents to telephone and leave a voicemail instead. A spokesperson for Essex County Council said it was "aware of a cyber security incident affecting Canvey Infant School". ГўВҖВңWe are supporting the school as required to minimise the impact on the start of the autumn term,ГўВҖВқ the spokesperson added. It is not clear if any information about pupils or staff has been compromised by the attack. The school was rated as ГўВҖВңgoodГўВҖВқ by Ofsted in its last inspection in October 2019, when 177 pupils were listed on the school roll. What stories would you like BBC News to cover from Essex? Follow Essex news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. School facing 'critical incident' after cyber attack Cyber attack paralyses school IT network Pupils miss classes as school cyber attacks rise Canvey Island Infant School 'My life was saved' - Essex Police marine unit saves couple on yacht amid storm Appeal after fatal motorbike collision in Waltham Abbey Firefighters at south Essex field blaze as residents urged to shut windows and doors Harwich to take part in the Great British Beach Clean this September Police appeal after 22-year-old motorcyclist dies at scene of crash in Essex Serious crash shuts A13 both ways with severe delays back to Lakeside Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Essex Woman, 22, dies following motorbike crash Anyone who saw what happened or has dashcam footage is asked to come forward. 'Women and children not protected from male harm' School enforces phone ban with hand-held scanners Police officer went abroad after calling in sick Builders 'encouraged' to add electric car hire schemes 'We need more homes to ease the housing crisis' Women encouraged to download new NHS health app Sisters, in 90s, awarded degrees after 60 years Two men arrested on suspicion of supplying drugs Student accommodation could help homeless crisis Pedestrian in critical condition after crash 'It won't save me but gives me hope for others' Today, High of 22ГӮВ° Low of 9ГӮВ° Friday 30 August,FriГӮВ 30th High of 23ГӮВ° Low of 12ГӮВ° Saturday 31 August,SatГӮВ 31st High of 21ГӮВ° Low of 14ГӮВ° Sunday 1 September,SunГӮВ 1st High of 25ГӮВ° Low of 14ГӮВ° Monday 2 September,MonГӮВ 2nd High of 24ГӮВ° Low of 13ГӮВ° County Championship: centuries for Surrey's Burns and Somerset's Abell Brentford edge past Colchester to reach third round Blaze beat leaders Vipers in Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy    Braintree Town 0-0 Ebbsfleet United Southend United 2-2 Dagenham & Redbridge Could beavers roam wild in Essex once more? Audio, 00:03:04Could beavers roam wild in Essex once more? Spanish galleon moors in Southend. BBC Essex. Audio, 00:02:51Spanish galleon moors in Southend BBC Essex Roydon villagers battle power plant plan. BBC Essex. Audio, 00:03:22Roydon villagers battle power plant plan BBC Essex Secret Essex. The Henham Dragon. Audio, 3 minutesSecret Essex The Henham Dragon County Championship: centuries for Surrey's Burns and Somerset's Abell Woman, 22, dies following motorbike crash School enforces phone ban with hand-held scanners Police officer went abroad after calling in sick Builders 'encouraged' to add electric car hire schemes Women encouraged to download new NHS health app 'We need more homes to ease the housing crisis' Two men arrested on suspicion of supplying drugs Student accommodation could help homeless crisis Pedestrian in critical condition after crash Man, 20s, in hospital after stabbing near roundabout Council spent more than ГӮВЈ1m on waste 'disaster' Sewage lorry sits for 20 hours a day outside homes Nurse struck off after safeguarding concern raised Praise for pier staff's quick response to fire Children's hospital could be built in 2026 Renowned musician charged with child sex offences Ambulance windscreen smashed during emergency call Infant school hit by cyber attack Festival scarecrows nailed to hoardings Swapping old slippers for new to help reduce falls Blaze beat leaders Vipers in Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy    Braintree Town 0-0 Ebbsfleet United Open flood barrier leaves village underwater Instagram TikTok Facebook X 'My life was saved' - Essex Police marine unit saves couple on yacht amid storm Appeal after fatal motorbike collision in Waltham Abbey Firefighters at south Essex field blaze as residents urged to shut windows and doors Harwich to take part in the Great British Beach Clean this September Police appeal after 22-year-old motorcyclist dies at scene of crash in Essex Serious crash shuts A13 both ways with severe delays back to Lakeside Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pavel Durov delivers a keynote address at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain in 2016 Messaging app Telegram has said its CEO Pavel Durov, who was detained in France on Saturday, has "nothing to hide". Mr Durov was arrested at an airport north of Paris under a warrant for offences related to the app, according to officials. The investigation is reportedly about insufficient moderation, with Mr Durov accused of failing to take steps to curb criminal uses of Telegram. The app is accused of failure to co-operate with law enforcement over drug trafficking, child sexual content and fraud. Telegram said in a statement that "its moderation is within industry standards and constantly improving". "It is absurd to claim that a platform or its owner are responsible for abuse of that platform," the app said. Telegram said Mr Durov travels in Europe frequently and added that it abides by European Union laws, including the Digital Services Act, , externalwhich aims to ensure a safe and accountable online environment.  "Almost a billion users globally use Telegram as means of communication and as a source of vital information," the app's statement read.  "WeГўВҖВҷre awaiting a prompt resolution of this situation. Telegram is with you all."  Judicial sources quoted by AFP news agency say Mr Durov's detention was extended on Sunday and could last as long as 96 hours.  Pavel Durov, 39, was born in Russia and now lives in Dubai, where Telegram is based. He holds citizenship of the United Arab Emirates and France. Telegram is particularly popular in Russia, Ukraine and former Soviet Union states. The app was banned in Russia in 2018, after a previous refusal by him to hand over user data. The ban was reversed in 2021. Telegram is ranked as one of the major social media platforms after Facebook, YouTube, WhatsApp, Instagram, TikTok and Wechat. Mr Durov founded Telegram in 2013. He left Russia in 2014 after refusing to comply with government demands to shut down opposition communities on his VKontakte social media platform, which he sold. Russia still regards Mr Durov as a Russian citizen. Its foreign ministry said the Russian embassy to France had "immediately taken the steps required in such cases to clarify the situation around the Russian citizen, despite not having received a request from the businessman's representatives". Then embassy itself said it was seeking to "clarify the reasons for the detention and to provide for the protection of Mr DurovГўВҖВҷs rights and facilitate consular access". It added that the French authorities had not been co-operating with Russian officials.  Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova posted on Telegram asking whether Western human rights NGOs would be silent on Mr Durov's arrest, after they criticised RussiaГўВҖВҷs decision to ГўВҖВңcreate obstaclesГўВҖВқ to the work of Telegram in Russia in 2018. On Monday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said it was right to wait and see what the official accusations against Mr Durov were - if any - before commenting further, as Russia remains unsure what he was arrested for. Telegram allows groups of up to 200,000 members, which critics have argued makes it easier for misinformation to spread, and for users to share conspiracist, neo-Nazi, paedophilic, or terror-related content. In the UK, the app was scrutinised for hosting far-right channels that were instrumental in organising the violent disorder in English cities earlier this month. Telegram did remove some groups, but overall its system of moderating extremist and illegal content is significantly weaker than that of other social media companies and messenger apps, say cybersecurity experts. Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Researchers have access to 1.6 million brain scans Scientists are hoping that access to more than 1.6 million brain scans collected from patients across Scotland could help predict a personГўВҖВҷs risk of dementia. A team of 20 researchers from the universities of Edinburgh and Dundee have been given unprecedented permission to view a huge number of anonymous scans gathered from across the Scottish population over a decade. It is the first time scientists in the UK have had access to such large volumes of valuable data. They will use artificial intelligence (AI) to analyse the scans to see if there are patterns or signs of dementia. Dementia is characterised by the build-up of different types of protein in the brain, which damages brain tissue and leads to cognitive decline.  Molecular and cellular changes to the brain usually begin many years before any symptoms occur.  What is Alzheimer's and how common is it? My pre-death grief over husband's dementia The researchers hope that by studying such a large number of brain scans they can develop tools that will help radiologists with early detection. The scientists have been given permission by NHS Scotland to use 1.6 million CT and MRI images collected during routine clinical care between 2008 and 2018. Previous research has been limited by access to much smaller numbers of scans. The decision to grant permission to study so many scans was taken by NHS ScotlandГўВҖВҷs Public Benefit and Privacy Panel for Health and Social Care, whose role is to make sure applicants have thought through the public benefit and privacy implications. All of the scans will be anonymised so researchers know nothing about the patients whose scans they are studying. Willy Gilder was diagnosed with AlzheimerГўВҖВҷs three years ago A patient being informed they are at risk of developing conditions such as Alzheimer's could help them make changes to slow down progress of the disease. Former journalist Willy Gilder, who was diagnosed with AlzheimerГўВҖВҷs three years ago, said: "If you know youГўВҖВҷre at risk, you can make changes that are going to improve your brain health." The 71-year-old, from Edinburgh, said: ГўВҖВңBecause I was diagnosed early, I know that keeping very mentally active, for example, is going to help me. "There are also treatments coming down the line for AlzheimerГўВҖВҷs that are exciting, but they work in the early stages of the disease, which is why early diagnosis is so important." Prof Emanuele Trucco is an expert in AI and medical imaging The latest research project is called Scan-Dan (Scottish AI in Neuroimaging to predict Dementia and Neurodegenerative Disease) and forms part a global research collaboration called NEURii. Prof Emanuele Trucco, an expert in AI and medical imaging at Dundee University, said: "Scotland and the UK are at the forefront of clinical data research.  "This new data set will be of great use to neurological researchers." Prof Trucco said the scientists did not know exactly what they were looking for but because it was such a large number of brain scans he was confident they would be able to identify patterns associated with dementia. ГўВҖВңSo if we see your brain, even if we are not entirely sure what we are seeing in the first instance, I can still predict whether you are at risk,ГўВҖВқ he said. The team said they would have a better understanding of the technologyГўВҖВҷs potential by early next year but that it would take another few years to develop a product that could be used in practice. Prof Will Whiteley is co-leading the project Prof Will Whiteley, of Edinburgh UniversityГўВҖВҷs centre for clinical brain sciences is co-leading the project. He said: ГўВҖВңCurrently treatments for dementia are expensive, scarce and of uncertain value. "If we can collect data from a large group of people at high risk, who then give their consent to take part in trials, we can really start to develop new treatments. "Using these images needs a lot of permissions so we have gone through a whole process with Public Health Scotland to take account of all the confidentiality and legal arrangements that are needed to use these." Dementia made our time more precious after 50 years Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Devi from Never Have I Ever would never profess her love for a boy over the phone Hi, youГўВҖВҷve reached the voicemail of Yasmin Rufo. Please don't leave a message as I wonГўВҖВҷt listen to it or call you back. Unfortunately that isn't my answerphone message but do I, along with most Gen Z and millennials, wish it was? Absolutely. A recent survey found a quarter of people aged 18 to 34 never answer the phone, external - respondents say they ignore the ringing, respond via text or search the number online if they don't recognise it. The Uswitch survey of 2,000 people also found that nearly 70% of 18-34s prefer a text to a phone call.  For older generations, talking on the phone is normal - my parents spent their teenage years fighting with their siblings over the landline in the corridor only to then have their entire family listen in to their conversations. I used the landline for business calls only in the late nineties  In contrast, my teenage years were spent texting.  From the moment I received my pink flip Nokia on my 13th birthday, I was obsessed with texting.  I would spend every evening after school formulating 160-character texts to my friends, removing every unnecessary space and vowel until the message resembled jumbled up consonants even GCHQ would struggle to decipher. After all, when it costs 10p a text there was no way I was going to spill over to 161 characters. In 2009, phone calls on my mobile would have cost a fortune.  ГўВҖВңWe didnГўВҖВҷt give you this phone so you could gossip with your friends all evening,ГўВҖВқ my parents would remind me as they looked through my monthly phone bill. And so a generation of texters were born: mobile phone calls were for emergencies and the landline was used infrequently to speak to your grandparents.  The mean girls would have definitely thought a three-way voice call in 2024 wasn't fetch Dr Elena Touroni, a consultant psychologist, explains that because young people didn't develop the habit of speaking on the phone, "it now feels weird as it's not the norm".  This can make young people fear the worst when their phone starts ringing (or silently lighting up because no-one under the age of 35 has a loud ringtone).   More than half of the young people who responded in the Uswitch survey admitted that they thought an unexpected call means bad news.  Psychotherapist Eloise Skinner explains that anxiety around calls comes from "an association with something bad - a sense of foreboding or dread". "As our lives get busier and working schedules more unpredictable, we have less time to call a friend simply to catch up. Phone calls, then, become reserved for the important news in our lives, which can often be complicated and difficult." "It's exactly that," says 26-year-old Jack Longley, adding that he also never responds to unknown numbers as "it's either scammers or cold callers".  "It's easier to just ignore the calls instead of sifting through to find out which ones are legitimate." Nick and Charlie from Heartstopper are part of the texting generation But not speaking on the phone doesn't mean young people aren't in touch with their friends - our group chats ping throughout the day with a mixture of banal messages, memes, gossip and, more recently, voice notes. Many of these conversations now take place on social media, particularly on Instagram and Snapchat where it's easier to send images and memes alongside texts.  While we all agree that phone calling is a big no-no, the use of voice notes has split the younger generations. In the Uswitch survey, 37% of 18-34s say voice notes are their preference of communication. In comparison, only 1% of 35 to 54-year-olds prefer voice messages over a call. The voice note is the Gen Z equivalent of marmite - you either love or hate them "A voice note is just like talking on the phone but better," says Susie Jones, a 19-year-old student. "You get the benefits of hearing your friend's voice but comes with no pressures so it's a more polite way of communicating". But for me, listening to a five-minute voice note from a friend updating me about their life is painful - they get side-tracked, every second word is "like" or "uhm" and the whole story could have been told in a couple of text messages.  Both texts and voice notes allow young people to participate in conversations at their own pace and allows them to give more thoughtful and considered responses. But to what extent does phone call phobia in your personal life start affecting your work life?  Henry Nelson-Case is a 31-year-old lawyer and content creator whose series of "overwhelmed millennial" videos are painfully relatable - sketches include the angst of sending a company-wide email, politely refusing to work overtime and of course, one about an employee doing anything to avoid a phone call.  He says "it's the anxiety associated with real-time conversations, potential awkwardness, not having the answers and the pressure to respond immediately," that makes him hate talking on the phone.  "Phone calls are more exposing and require a higher level of intimacy whereas messaging is detached and allows you to connect without feeling vulnerable or exposed," explains Dr Touroni. Only Cher and Dionne from Clueless could make talking on the phone remotely cool Dunja Relic, a 27-year-old lawyer, says she steers clear of workplace calls because "they can be time consuming and set you back on your tasks".  Skinner describes this as the 'this could have been an email' sentiment. "There's a growing sense of protection over our time and calling someone requires the recipient to pause their day and dedicate attention to the conversation - a difficult thing for multitaskers to do." James Holton, a 64-year-old business owner, says his younger employees rarely respond to phone calls and "either have a default message that says theyГўВҖВҷre busy or they put my number on diverted calls, so the call never goes through". "They always have an excuse up their sleeves, with the most common being that my phone is silent, so I never saw it and forgot to call you later." He says he has definitely had to adapt after he noticed "a visible communication gap" and "if employees are more comfortable with texts, then it's my responsibility to respect that choice". Allow Twitter content? This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read TwitterГўВҖВҷs cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ГўВҖВҳaccept and continueГўВҖВҷ. But, with a preference for non-verbal communication and a tendency to work from home, are we losing the ability for unscheduled and informal conversations?  Skinner says if the current trend continues then "we might lose a sense of closeness or connection". "When we communicate verbally we feel more aligned, emotionally, professionally or personally," she continues. "This connection can lead to a greater sense of fulfilment, especially in the workplace." Ciara Brodie, a 25-year-old supermarket area manager, bucks the trend and says she "loves and appreciates when my seniors at work call me". "It's more thoughtful than a text because it requires a certain amount of effort, so you really know that your manager values your input." She especially likes talking to colleagues over the phone on days she works from home as "it can be solitary, so it's nice to stay connected".  While some people may say this new communication trend is further proof of us being "generation snowflake", it's actually far from that.  Instead, it's about adapting. No doubt 25 years ago people were resistant from switching from fax to email, but the change has made communication far more efficient.  Perhaps now it's time to recognise the power of text and just as we ditched the fax machine in the 1990s, we can leave the dreaded phone calls behind in 2024.  Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology AI chip giant Nvidia shares fall despite record sales The California-based technology giant has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the AI boom. Boss arrested over deadly fire at S Korea battery plant Telegram boss banned from leaving France in criminal probe Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Klarna: AI lets us cut thousands of jobs - but pay more Telegram repeatedly refuses to join child protection schemes Who is Pavel Durov and what is Telegram? Man posing as teen YouTuber jailed for global sextortion Can Barbie help beat teen smartphone addiction? Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport Zuckerberg regrets bowing to Biden 'pressure' over Covid Canada hits China-made electric cars with 100% tariff In Russia, questions swirl over arrest of Telegram boss Uber fined ГўВӮВ¬290m for personal data transfer Australians get 'right to disconnect' after hours Should you have to pay for online privacy? Mike Lynch: Tributes paid to 'UK's greatest tech entrepreneur' Tech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: The voice cloning lawsuit Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job. Video, 00:00:48Five tips for turning gaming from a hobby to a job Tech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: AI helps doctors detect lung cancer Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Video, 00:00:58Could this little robot help rehabilitate stroke patients? Tech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia. Audio, 26 minutesTech Life: Olympic esports and Saudi Arabia When vets are scarce what can farmers do? The mind-bending mirrors behind advanced technology Is this the end for the magnetic stripe? No laughing matter - how AI is helping comedians write jokes The 'superfood' taking over fields in northern India Instagram TikTok Facebook X Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Follow Technology Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.




This page explains how the BBC can keep you in touch with the latest news. We offer emails and breaking news alerts via the BBC News website, the BBC News app and Twitter.   Sign up here to receive a range of BBC News editorial newsletters delivered straight to your inbox throughout the week. These are email updates on the latest news, insights and topics across BBC News. Whenever you come to the BBC News website on a tablet or computer, you'll get notified of the latest breaking news in the 'breaking news banner' which automatically appears at the bottom of your browser window.  The banner will disappear when you click on it, dismiss it or visit another page.  Push notifications are available to users of smartphones and tablets who download the BBC News app, allowing you to receive breaking news alerts. When a push notification is received it will pop up on your screen similar to a text message, regardless of whether or not the app is open at the time. Depending on your settings the alert may also be accompanied by a sound. Tapping the notification will load the corresponding story in the app when it is available. Full details on how push alerts work are available for iPhone and iPads and Android. You can choose to unsubscribe from push notifications from BBC News in your device's "Notifications" screen.   On Twitter, we offer a  breaking news account which you can follow and receive breaking news alerts as they happen. To subscribe login or register with Twitter and then follow @BBCBreaking, external.  Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Please choose one of the following: For help to solve TV or Radio reception problems visit the Help Receiving TV and Radio website or use our Transmitter Checker tool to check for any known problems or faults in your area. To send us a story. To report factual or grammatical issues with our online stories. To report a technical issue with the News website or app. If you want to complain about any BBC news output, go to the BBC Complaints website. Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Every day BBC News brings you the latest stories from across the globe but what we want to hear are the issues that matter to you. The part you play in making the news is very important. Whether it is breaking news or a featured item, your contribution can make a difference. Have you seen or been involved in a news event? Is something significant, bizarre or unusual happening where you live? Have you got a story to tell or is there something you think we should follow up? Are there topics you want to get the world talking about? On what do you want to comment? Or do you want to find out what others are talking about? Terms of use for sending contributions to the BBC and the BBC's privacy policy. If you have a story, picture or video you wish to share, here are the different ways to send in your contributions: Contact us on Twitter Contact us at twitter.com/BBC_HaveYourSay, external We may use your tweets displaying your Twitter username on BBC output. Message us via WhatsApp You can send a picture, video or message to our WhatsApp account +44 7756 165803, external. In some cases your text, as well as your images, may be used on BBC output.  We will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your mobile phone number. We aim to read all of your messages but due to the numbers we receive each day it is not always possible to reply to everyone individually.  Email Email your stories to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk, external We aim to read all of your emails but due to the numbers we receive each day it is not always possible to reply to everyone individually.  In some cases your images or audio may be used on BBC output.   If we use your material on BBC programmes or online we will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your email address. Upload You can also upload, external your video or pictures. In some cases your images may be used on BBC output.  We will publish your name as you provide it, unless you ask us not to.  Is there a story you would like us to investigate? Use this form to let us know.  If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your story or send them via email to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk, external. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in.  Terms and conditions The BBC's Privacy Policy Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The BBC is recognised by audiences in the UK and around the world as a provider of news that you can trust. Our website, like our TV and radio services, strives for journalism that is accurate, impartial, independent and fair. Our editorial values say: "The trust that our audience has in all our content underpins everything that we do. We are independent, impartial and honest. We are committed to achieving the highest standards of accuracy and impartiality and strive to avoid knowingly or materially misleading our audiences. "Our commitment to impartiality is at the heart of that relationship of trust. In all our output we will treat every subject with an impartiality that reflects the full range of views. We will consider all the relevant facts fairly and with an open mind." Research shows that, compared to other broadcasters, newspapers and online sites, the BBC is seen as by far the most trusted and impartial news provider in the UK [PDF], external. Even so, we know that identifying credible journalism on the internet can be a confusing experience. We also know that audiences want to understand more about how BBC journalism is produced. For these reasons, BBC News is making even greater efforts to explain what type of information you are reading or watching on our website, who and where the information is coming from, and how a story was crafted the way it was. By doing so, we can help you judge for yourself why BBC News can be trusted. We are also making these indicators of trustworthy journalism "machine-readable", meaning that they can be picked up by search engines and social media platforms, helping them to better identify reliable sources of information too.  These indicators comprise the following areas: Newsroom best practice Type of Work Journalist Expertise Citations and References Methodology The BBC has long had its own Editorial Guidelines that apply to all of our content and set out the standards expected of our journalists.  To make it easier to see how BBC guidelines are used in our newsroom, we have listed all the relevant sections on this page. Mission Statement: The mission of the BBC is to act in the public interest, serving all audiences through the provision of impartial, high-quality and distinctive output and services that inform, educate and entertain. Full details are in the BBC Charter, external. Ownership Structure, Funding and Grants: We are independent of outside interests and arrangements that could undermine our editorial integrity.  Our audiences should be confident that our decisions are not influenced by outside interests, political or commercial pressures, or any personal interests. Learn more about how BBC News is funded, in the UK and internationally, in the BBC Charter on the independence of the BBC, external. Other links: Editorial Guidelines on Impartiality Editorial Guidelines on Editorial Standards Editorial Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest BBC Framework Agreement on provision of commercial activities, external Guidelines for BBC Commercial Services Founding Date: The BBC was founded on 18 October 1922. Read more about the history of the BBC. Ethics Policy: The BBC's Editorial Guidelines outline the editorial values and practices that all our output is expected to conform to.   Other links: BBC Charter and Framework Agreement, external BBC World Service Operating Licence, external Diversity Policy: Learn about BBC News' commitment to diversity in the BBC Charter, external. Other links: Editorial Guidelines Section on Impartiality and Diversity of Opinion Diversity and Inclusion page Diversity Staffing Report: Find out about how BBC News is working to increase diversity in the BBC's Equality Information Report. Corrections: The BBC is committed to achieving due accuracy.  Policies relating to corrections can be found in the following sections of our Editorial Guidelines.  Our output must be well sourced, based on sound evidence, thoroughly tested and presented in clear, precise language.  We should be honest and open about what we don't know and avoid unfounded speculation.  Claims, allegations, material facts and other content that cannot be corroborated should normally be attributed. We are open in acknowledging mistakes when they are made and encourage a culture of willingness to learn from them.  If an article has been edited since publication to correct a material inaccuracy, a note will be added at the end of the text to signal to the reader there has been an amendment or correction with the date of that change. If there is a small error in a story that does not alter its editorial meaning (eg name misspelling), the correction will be made without an additional note. Unless content is specifically made available only for a limited time period, there is a presumption that material published online will become part of a permanently accessible archive and will not normally be removed. Exceptional circumstances may include legal reasons, personal safety risks, or a serious breach of editorial standards that cannot be rectified except by removal of the material. Other links: Editorial Guidelines on Accountability Editorial Guidelines on Removal of Online Content Verification/Fact-checking Standards: The BBC's accuracy and verification policy is outlined in the Editorial Guidelines on Accuracy. Other links: Ofcom Operating Framework and Licence for the BBC, external Unnamed Sources:  The BBC's policy and guidance on the use of anonymous sources is detailed in the Editorial Guidelines. Other links: Editorial Guidelines - Mandatory referrals Editorial Guidelines - Gathering material Editorial Guidelines on user contributions in news output Actionable Feedback: The BBC's complaints procedure is outlined in the BBC Complaints Framework. Other links: Have Your Say Contact Us Leadership: Meet the senior executive team that runs the news division: BBC News Board.  BBC News articles based on original reporting carry bylines (the name of the journalist), as often do those authored by journalists who have a subject specialism. General news stories, which tend to combine information from a variety of sources, including news agencies, BBC Newsgathering and BBC broadcast output, or which may have been produced by several members of staff over the course of the day, do not as a rule carry bylines. Article bylines for many correspondents and editors link to individual blog pages, where biographical information, expertise, and social media details can be found.  BBC News distinguishes between factual reporting and opinion. We use machine-readable labels in six categories: News - Journalism based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources Analysis - Output primarily based on the specialist knowledge of an author, whether a BBC journalist or outside expert, to help you understand complex current affairs and trends Ask the Audience - Content created primarily to elicit direct audience response Explainer - Content that provides clear factual explanation of the causes or context behind the news Opinion - BBC News itself is impartial and does not offer opinions but we do sometimes publish expressions of personal views by outside experts, advocating ideas and drawing conclusions based on the author's interpretation of facts and data Review - Content based on a critical appraisal of an event, a work of art etc, containing first-hand opinion  Our output, as appropriate to its subject and nature, should be well sourced, based on sound evidence, thoroughly tested and presented in clear, precise language.  We strive to be honest and open about what we don't know and avoid unfounded speculation.  Where BBC News relies on a single source for a key aspect of its coverage, we will strive to credit that source, where possible. We usually link to official reports, sets of statistics and other sources of information, to enable you to judge for yourself the underlying information that we are reporting on. Whenever appropriate, we also offer links to relevant third-party websites that provide additional information, source material or informed comment. For in-depth pieces of work, such as complex investigations or data journalism projects, we will help you understand how we went about our work by showing the underlying data and by disclosing any caveats, assumptions or other methodological frameworks used - for example, the study-design; the sample size; representativeness; margins of error; how the data was collected; geographical relevance and time periods. Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 Alien Life - Russell Kane, Lisa Kaltenegger and Chris Lintott Brian Cox and Robin Ince search for alien life at Glastonbury with Russell Kane and guests Read more now playing Series 30 Alien Life - Russell Kane, Lisa Kaltenegger and Chris Lintott Brian Cox and Robin Ince search for alien life at Glastonbury with Russell Kane and guests
 As the proposal for the opening of a new mine creates division in the community, a senseless murder threatens to reignite historic turf wars that plagued the Nottingham of old.В 
 1. Sleep with the Money Moses Swaibu has the makings of a top-flight footballer вҖ“ until temptation comes his way. Read more now playing Confessions of a Match Fixer 1. Sleep with the Money Moses Swaibu has the makings of a top-flight footballer вҖ“ until temptation comes his way. Confessions of a Match Fixer 2. By Any Means Necessary ThereвҖҷs ВЈ60k at the back of the team bus. But if you take it, thereвҖҷs no turning back. Confessions of a Match Fixer 3. The Middleman ВЈ100k is sloshing around the footwell, as MosesвҖҷ car hurtles through the city at night. Confessions of a Match Fixer 4. Taking over the League More players want in. The money keeps growing. Will MosesвҖҷ good times ever end? Confessions of a Match Fixer 5. Feeling the Heat Did you hear the one about the Conference South game that got more bets than Barcelona? Confessions of a Match Fixer 6. Braveheart What do you do when you come up against the footballer you cannot corrupt? Confessions of a Match Fixer 7. Dragged Back in Voices from the past bring new opportunities. But is Moses in or is he out? Confessions of a Match Fixer 8. Sting in the tale On the other side of the world, a bugged goalpost brings tales of the match-fixing king. Confessions of a Match Fixer 2. By Any Means Necessary ThereвҖҷs ВЈ60k at the back of the team bus. But if you take it, thereвҖҷs no turning back. Confessions of a Match Fixer 3. The Middleman ВЈ100k is sloshing around the footwell, as MosesвҖҷ car hurtles through the city at night. Confessions of a Match Fixer 4. Taking over the League More players want in. The money keeps growing. Will MosesвҖҷ good times ever end? Confessions of a Match Fixer 5. Feeling the Heat Did you hear the one about the Conference South game that got more bets than Barcelona? Confessions of a Match Fixer 6. Braveheart What do you do when you come up against the footballer you cannot corrupt? Confessions of a Match Fixer 7. Dragged Back in Voices from the past bring new opportunities. But is Moses in or is he out? Confessions of a Match Fixer 8. Sting in the tale On the other side of the world, a bugged goalpost brings tales of the match-fixing king.
 The team begins a six-month expedition following lions, leopards and cheetahs in the Okavango Delta. A huge wildfire threatens both the big cats and the team.В More
 The best of arts and classical music from the BBC
 Taster is a platform for testing new, experimental content from the BBC. You can Try, Rate and Share new ideas from the BBC and its partners, as well as explore the catalogue of previous pilots. All content on this site is designed for people over 16, and may contain adult themes. We really want your feedback to help us steer future research and development. Taster will be updated regularly as ideas come and go. For more see the Terms of Use.
Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 This is BBC Three This is BBC Three This is BBC Three This is BBC Three
 We want everyone to enjoy the BBC. But there are a few rules to stick to. Take a look through our explainers to see what you (and we) can and can't do. Our explainers cover questions we often get asked. Can't find what you're after? Take a look at the full version of the Terms of Use.
 Everything you need to know about the workings of the BBC WeвҖҷre impartial and independent, and every day we create distinctive, world-class programmes and content which inform, educate and entertain millions of people in the UK and around the world. We do this across: Established by aВ Royal Charter, the BBC is principally funded through theВ licence feeВ paid by UK households. Our role is toВ fulfil our mission and promote our Public Purposes. Our commercial operationsВ including BBC Studios,В the BBCвҖҷs award-winning production company and world-class distributor, provide additional revenue for investment in new programming and services for UK audiences. The BBCвҖҷs BoardВ ensures that we deliver our mission and public purposes which are set out in the Charter.В The Executive CommitteeВ is responsible for day-to-day management. We are regulated byВ Ofcom. The page will automatically reload. You may need to reload again if the build takes longer than expected.
             Select a theme and theme mode and click "Load theme" to load in your theme combination.
 We take your privacy very seriously. And so should you. So have a look around to see what weвҖҷre doing with your personal information and how weвҖҷre keeping it secure. Read our privacy promise. The page will automatically reload. You may need to reload again if the build takes longer than expected. Select a theme and theme mode and click "Load theme" to load in your theme combination.
 Cookies help us remember you and show you more things we think youГўВҖВҷll like.  Have a browse to see what we use them for and how you can change your settings to suit you. The page will automatically reload. You may need to reload again if the build takes longer than expected. Select a theme and theme mode and click "Load theme" to load in your theme combination.
 All audiences are important to the BBC. This page provides links to resources and documents to help users access the BBC's content and to find out about the BBC approach to the development of rich accessible products and services.
 The Parental Guidance Lock helps you control what people in your household can and can't watch on iPlayer or listen to in BBC Sounds. Turn it on and we'll ask you to create a PIN. Then, whenever anyone tries to watch or listen to anything with a BBC Guidance label, they'll have to enter the PIN. What are Guidance labels? Bear in mind, this will only turn it on in the internet browser on this device. So you may want to also turn on the Parental Guidance Lock separately on your other devices.
 Menu Choose from these areas for information or help about our programmes and services. Information about issues, programmes or services which we're often asked about. Get support to resolve problems with BBC iPlayer, along with how to guides, FAQs and updates on known issues. Get support to resolve problems with BBC Sounds, along with how to guides, FAQs and updates on known issues. Details of organisations offering support if you're affected by issues in our coverage The BBC helped raise over ВЈ105 million for charities in 2020/21.  Find out more about how you can help. Latest transmitter status and support for problems or interference receiving BBC TV and Radio
 Menu These pages have information about how to complain to the BBC, with links to the BBCвҖҷs Complaints Framework, the BBCвҖҷs regulator Ofcom and regular reports about complaints. If you would like to understand how we collect and use personal data, please refer to our privacy notice.
Watch our short film to learn more about how the BBC responds to your feedback. These are recent public responses we have made to issues of wide audience concern which have either generated significant numbers of complaints or raised significant issues (we do not respond publicly to all complaints we reply to). Record your complaint 24 hours a day:
03700 100 222* 03700 100 212* (textphone) (*charged as geographic numbers) BBC Complaints
PO Box 1922,
Darlington,
DL3 0UR.
Subscribe to BBC emails for you Every week we send a round-up of the latest shows, services and experiences from across the BBC in our email updates. Plus, if we spot anything extra we think you'll love, we'll let you know about that too. Simply sign up today and don't worry ГўВҖВ“ you can unsubscribe from these emails at any time. Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 This guidance note relates to the following Editorial Guidelines:В  Part 1: LinksВ  Part 2: Inbound feeds and embedsВ  Scope This Guidance Note is designed to help you select and manage suitable external links to other sites from BBC Online. It is also designed to help you select and manage suitable inbound feeds and other online sources of third-party content for publication on BBC Online.В  For advice on distribution, including syndication, see Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing: Distribution.В  See Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing: DistributionВ  16.3.14 ГўВҖВ“ 16.3.16 Introduction The BBCГўВҖВҷs global reputation is based on its editorial integrity and independence.В  Our audiences need to be confident that our decisions are influenced neither by political or commercial pressures, nor by any personal interests. We must not undermine these values by any actions which could bring the BBC into disrepute.В  The Editorial Guidelines state that: Links to external sites Whenever producers are creating content on a BBC site, they should actively consider which external websites it may be editorially justifiable to link to. Editorial justification for linking to external sites Producers may wish to offer links to external sites for a number of reasons, including: A link must never be included on the public service site or within the editorial content of a commercial site in return for cash, services or any other consideration in kind. All links on the BBC Public Service site or on the editorial pages of a BBC Commercial site must be editorially justifiable and suitable for the intended audience ГўВҖВ“ particularly children. Links are not acceptable as a form of credit. Editorial checks Producers must check the contents of the site which is signposted before adding a link to a BBC page, although responsibility for including the link lies with the relevant editor.В  Where this is practical, we should consider ways to make it easy for users who find broken, stale or inappropriate external BBC links to report these to us so that we can check, update, replace or remove them.В В  Disclaimers Where we publish a list of links we should add the standard disclaimer to the effect that "the BBC is not responsible for the contents of any other sites listed". If the links are to controversial or challenging material, itВ  may be appropriate to add a specific disclaimer and more information, closer to the links,В  even when there are only one or two links on a page. For ГўВҖВңin storyГўВҖВқ links to such material, for example to very sensitive content such as a gruelling account of torture, it may be helpful to alert the user to this, in context, as part of telling the story.В  Links to sites which do not share BBC editorial values Context is important in deciding whether a link is appropriate and it is often useful to explain why we are offering the link. In some cases we may offer a link to a site which does not share our editorial values, but which offers a useful insight. For example we might link from a current affairs page to the site of a government-run national news agency so that the user can see the precise words used in a government statement. Controversial content We must be duly impartial.В  BBC sites which cover a controversial or public policy matter may offer links to external sites which, taken together, represent a reasonable range of views about the subject. We should ensure that when we link to third party sites that we take into account any concerns about potential breaches of the law, for example, defamation or incitement to racial hatred. Where content is likely to cause serious offence to some users and yet there is a strong editorial justification for covering the story, it may be editorially justifiable for the BBC to link to the relevant site rather than to host the content ourselves. Charities Links to charity sites have to be based on sensible editorial criteria. If one charity is in the news, it may be appropriate to establish a link to the site of that charity. But we must take care not to promote one charity above another. If we are giving advice or general information about the subject and wish to refer to a charity and there is a range of charities working in the field, we should normally link to the other significant charities working in the field as well. This guidance applies to online links offered by BBC Action Lines. (See Editorial Guidelines Section 14 : Independence from External Interests: BBC Support Services 14.3.26) We should also consider where on the charity website we link to ГўВҖВ“ for example it may be appropriate to link to useful sources of information, but not to campaigning or fundraising pages. Programme Support For programme support pages, an external link should be justified by the relevance and value of the material to the programme's viewers and listeners. If we give a link to an outside advice agency from a support page, we should give links to a reasonable range of other relevant agencies as well.В  Where a consumer programme reviews a product or service, we should only offer links to the sites of the manufacturers, suppliers or retailers of any goods or services mentioned where strictly editorially justifiable.В  Undue prominence There must be no undue prominence of products, services or trade marks in our content.В  (See Editorial Guidelines Section 14 : Independence from External Interests: Product Prominence 14.3.1) Public Services must not endorse or promote any other organisation, or its products, services or trademarks, so great care must be taken when linking to any site in order not to give the impression that the BBC is doing so.В  BBC Public Service sites should not normally link direct to pages whose main purpose is transactional e.g. selling merchandise, downloads or tickets. See exceptions below for links to buy BBC-related programme content and links to buy tickets for BBC Events. There are some occasions where we may also wish to link directly to a donations page for a BBC charitable appeal. (See Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing: Charities 16.3.43) If in any doubt, refer to Editorial Policy.В  Links from BBC Public Services to the BBCГўВҖВҷs Commercial sites General points: Links to buy tickets BBC programmes and sites regularly cover music concerts and tours. Linking policy to sites where users can buy tickets will depend on the nature of the event. If it is a BBC mounted or run event (on the Public Services to contribute to the BBCГўВҖВҷs Mission and Public Purposes), then a direct link to the source of the tickets is likely to be editorially justifiable. (See Editorial Guidelines Section 16 External Relationships and Financing В Ticket Sales 16.3.34) If it is not a BBC mounted or run event (and where for example a BBC network is simply broadcasting a concert organised by someone else) then a direct link to the relevant bandГўВҖВҷs site is likely to be editorially justifiable, with one more click from there to the ticket agencyГўВҖВҷs site. Pulling third-party content on to BBC Online pages is more editorially sensitive than linking externally. Following an external link takes you away from the BBC site and users have a chance to adjust their expectations in the light of that journey. But as third party content sits with BBC content on BBC branded pages, users are more likely to expect it to have been through a rigorous editorial examination and to comply with BBC editorial standards before being published on our site. Editorial responsibility The person who is editorially responsible for the page on which the feed or embed appears will be responsible for the content from that feed or embed. This principle will apply whether it is a bespoke feed to a single page or a general feed to many pages. We would not normally embed a live feed of video or text unless we had a contractual relationship with the supplier that provides assurances about the content or we could be otherwise confident that the content is appropriate to be shared on our own platforms. Transparency Where we take in content from an external supplier, we should be transparent about it with our users. Attribution should be as close as possible to the content in question. We should provide a clear and easy route for our users to report a mistake or find offensive or inappropriate content on a feed. Embeds Embedded video, for example of a social networking site video player such as YouTube or Vimeo on a BBC page, may be a useful way to display editorially relevant non-BBC content. Even though the content is not under our control it appears to the audience that it is part of our online content. We should therefore make it clear that the embedded video is from a third party site and give the audience a direct route to report to the relevant editorial team any inappropriate content, such as advertising, that might appear on that video. Last updated July 2019 The page will automatically reload. You may need to reload again if the build takes longer than expected.
             Select a theme and theme mode and click "Load theme" to load in your theme combination.
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Swedish chef critical after attack near carnival Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland Ten-month-old girl dies after Tavistock car crash Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two pedestrians and driver dead after car crash Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Find your regional news Paris Paralympic Games 2024: The opening ceremony in pictures 'I want my children to remember me competing in a Paralympics' Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Suzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life. Audio, 3 minutesSuzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life Day-to-day guide: Who's up for gold? Latest news and must-see moments Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum. Video, 00:02:02Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? First-look pictures released for new series of Waterloo Road Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Spencer Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor. Video, 00:01:36Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Absolute classics everyone should learn to cook Replace your usual chips with these impressive potato dishes Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Here's why you could be storing your fruit wrong How food halls have managed to become big business. Audio, 26 minutesHow food halls have managed to become big business Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Can building your own home tackle housing crisis? What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Video, 00:06:14What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Why coffee and alcohol make us feel so much worse as we age Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash. Video, 00:06:30Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash NHS launches fresh appeal for blood donors as shortage continues 'I hid chronic pain from loved ones for 25 years' 'Don't follow your dreams': Is this the key to a happy life? 'I played with David Bowie at Live Aid' 12-year-old finds rare Roman gold bracelet on dog walk Photographer unveils extraordinary close-ups of bugs on his doorstep 'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses. Audio, 00:05:10'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Ten skills you might not know you had Tips for the new year from BBC Bitesize Back to school: friendship groups. 00:00:34, play videoBack to school: friendship groups Back to school: organisation hacks. 00:00:47, play videoBack to school: organisation hacks Back to school: school rules. 00:00:35, play videoBack to school: school rules Back to school: making friends. 00:00:43, play videoBack to school: making friends Back to school: bullying advice. 00:00:25, play videoBack to school: bullying advice Back to school: positive routines. 00:00:33, play videoBack to school: positive routines Back to school: peer pressure. 00:00:42, play videoBack to school: peer pressure Back to school: feeling overwhelmed. 00:00:39, play videoBack to school: feeling overwhelmed Back to school: subjects you don't like. 00:00:31, play videoBack to school: subjects you don't like Back to school: disruptive classes. 00:00:28, play videoBack to school: disruptive classes Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Coercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Audio, 6 minutesCoercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Stream and download your favourite BBC podcasts, radio stations and music all in one place New episodes available from September 3rd A complex web of revenge and betrayal Romesh gets to the bottom of infamous celebrity mysteries Getting up close with Africa's magnificent felines Unmissable performances from the festival so far Donna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover. Video, 3 minutesDonna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover Celebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces. Audio, 89 minutesCelebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces Doctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show. Audio, 179 minutesDoctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show Stravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall. Audio, 149 minutesStravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall Britten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever. Audio, 104 minutesBritten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later Britain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Video, 19 minutesBritain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Budget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World. Video, 58 minutesBudget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World Grenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' Audio, 14 minutesGrenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' BBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists. AudioBBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 31 minutesStephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 Copyright В© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Swedish chef critical after attack near carnival Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland Ten-month-old girl dies after Tavistock car crash Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two pedestrians and driver dead after car crash Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Find your regional news Paris Paralympic Games 2024: The opening ceremony in pictures 'I want my children to remember me competing in a Paralympics' Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Suzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life. Audio, 3 minutesSuzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life Day-to-day guide: Who's up for gold? Latest news and must-see moments Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum. Video, 00:02:02Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? First-look pictures released for new series of Waterloo Road Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Spencer Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor. Video, 00:01:36Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Absolute classics everyone should learn to cook Replace your usual chips with these impressive potato dishes Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Here's why you could be storing your fruit wrong How food halls have managed to become big business. Audio, 26 minutesHow food halls have managed to become big business Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Can building your own home tackle housing crisis? What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Video, 00:06:14What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Why coffee and alcohol make us feel so much worse as we age Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash. Video, 00:06:30Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash NHS launches fresh appeal for blood donors as shortage continues 'I hid chronic pain from loved ones for 25 years' 'Don't follow your dreams': Is this the key to a happy life? 'I played with David Bowie at Live Aid' 12-year-old finds rare Roman gold bracelet on dog walk Photographer unveils extraordinary close-ups of bugs on his doorstep 'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses. Audio, 00:05:10'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Ten skills you might not know you had Tips for the new year from BBC Bitesize Back to school: friendship groups. 00:00:34, play videoBack to school: friendship groups Back to school: organisation hacks. 00:00:47, play videoBack to school: organisation hacks Back to school: school rules. 00:00:35, play videoBack to school: school rules Back to school: making friends. 00:00:43, play videoBack to school: making friends Back to school: bullying advice. 00:00:25, play videoBack to school: bullying advice Back to school: positive routines. 00:00:33, play videoBack to school: positive routines Back to school: peer pressure. 00:00:42, play videoBack to school: peer pressure Back to school: feeling overwhelmed. 00:00:39, play videoBack to school: feeling overwhelmed Back to school: subjects you don't like. 00:00:31, play videoBack to school: subjects you don't like Back to school: disruptive classes. 00:00:28, play videoBack to school: disruptive classes Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Coercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Audio, 6 minutesCoercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Stream and download your favourite BBC podcasts, radio stations and music all in one place New episodes available from September 3rd A complex web of revenge and betrayal Romesh gets to the bottom of infamous celebrity mysteries Getting up close with Africa's magnificent felines Unmissable performances from the festival so far Donna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover. Video, 3 minutesDonna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover Celebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces. Audio, 89 minutesCelebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces Doctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show. Audio, 179 minutesDoctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show Stravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall. Audio, 149 minutesStravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall Britten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever. Audio, 104 minutesBritten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later Britain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Video, 19 minutesBritain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Budget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World. Video, 58 minutesBudget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World Grenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' Audio, 14 minutesGrenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' BBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists. AudioBBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 31 minutesStephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered - PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' says prolific ex-shoplifter Millions told to evacuate as typhoon batters Japan Paralympics 2024: Schrager wins silver after heartbreak for Cox  Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Marr 'ignored' Smiths reunion offer - Morrissey Mobility scooter thief who left man to die is jailed Swedish chef critical after attack near carnival Keep up with the latest from BBC Sport Root steers England to 200-5 at tea on day one v Sri Lanka Football latest: Transfer updates plus England news conference Gomes, Livramento, Madueke and Gibbs-White in England squad  Schrager wins first GB medal of Paralympics after Cox crashes out Mercedes and Verstappen 'keep open communication' over future move - Wolff The top stories from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland Ten-month-old girl dies after Tavistock car crash Scotland's 'Tony Soprano' smuggled cocaine in banana boxes Two pedestrians and driver dead after car crash Colum Eastwood: 'It is time for me to step aside' Find your regional news Paris Paralympic Games 2024: The opening ceremony in pictures 'I want my children to remember me competing in a Paralympics' Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Suzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life. Audio, 3 minutesSuzanna Hext: My hearing dog has changed my life Day-to-day guide: Who's up for gold? Latest news and must-see moments Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum. Video, 00:02:02Freddie Brazier: I don't really remember being held by Mum Going solo: Are bands falling out of fashion? First-look pictures released for new series of Waterloo Road Beetlejuice stars launch sequel in Venice Spencer Matthews says desert marathon was 'humbling' Oasis ticket prices and extra dates - everything you need to know about reunion Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor. Video, 00:01:36Mel C explores 'gripping' embezzlement case involving her ancestor Meal ideas, cooking tips and more, updated daily to keep you inspired Absolute classics everyone should learn to cook Replace your usual chips with these impressive potato dishes Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough? Here's why you could be storing your fruit wrong How food halls have managed to become big business. Audio, 26 minutesHow food halls have managed to become big business Fuel duty cut could be scrapped, says RAC What taxes might be raised in the Budget? Can building your own home tackle housing crisis? What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Video, 00:06:14What are 'crash for cash' scams and what can you do if you're hit by one? Why coffee and alcohol make us feel so much worse as we age Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash. Video, 00:06:30Traitors' Andrew: I'm still healing trauma of near-fatal car crash NHS launches fresh appeal for blood donors as shortage continues 'I hid chronic pain from loved ones for 25 years' 'Don't follow your dreams': Is this the key to a happy life? 'I played with David Bowie at Live Aid' 12-year-old finds rare Roman gold bracelet on dog walk Photographer unveils extraordinary close-ups of bugs on his doorstep 'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses. Audio, 00:05:10'They're absolutely stunning!': The man who loves making replica buses 'I got no GCSEs and cleaned pubs - now I'm a uni lecturer' Ten skills you might not know you had Tips for the new year from BBC Bitesize Back to school: friendship groups. 00:00:34, play videoBack to school: friendship groups Back to school: organisation hacks. 00:00:47, play videoBack to school: organisation hacks Back to school: school rules. 00:00:35, play videoBack to school: school rules Back to school: making friends. 00:00:43, play videoBack to school: making friends Back to school: bullying advice. 00:00:25, play videoBack to school: bullying advice Back to school: positive routines. 00:00:33, play videoBack to school: positive routines Back to school: peer pressure. 00:00:42, play videoBack to school: peer pressure Back to school: feeling overwhelmed. 00:00:39, play videoBack to school: feeling overwhelmed Back to school: subjects you don't like. 00:00:31, play videoBack to school: subjects you don't like Back to school: disruptive classes. 00:00:28, play videoBack to school: disruptive classes Photo exhibition showcases work of local artisans Coercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Audio, 6 minutesCoercive control: 'Was I ignored because IГўВҖВҷm a man?' Ryanair boss calls for two-drink limit at airports Stream and download your favourite BBC podcasts, radio stations and music all in one place New episodes available from September 3rd A complex web of revenge and betrayal Romesh gets to the bottom of infamous celebrity mysteries Getting up close with Africa's magnificent felines Unmissable performances from the festival so far Donna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover. Video, 3 minutesDonna Summer's disco hit is given a Proms makeover Celebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces. Audio, 89 minutesCelebrating 100 years, the BBC Singers perform a selection of masterpieces Doctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show. Audio, 179 minutesDoctor Who returns to the Proms with a brand-new show Stravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall. Audio, 149 minutesStravinsky's Firebird dazzles at the Albert Hall Britten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever. Audio, 104 minutesBritten's War Requiem: A monumental piece as relevant now as ever Short on time? Click through to add or bookmark for later Britain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Video, 19 minutesBritain's Most Tagged: 'I just want to twist it off' Budget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World. Video, 58 minutesBudget-busting journeys continue in Celebrity Race Across the World Grenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' Audio, 14 minutesGrenfell disaster: 'Layer upon layer of people had the chance to step in' BBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists. AudioBBC Asian Network's guide to the ultimate wedding playlists Stephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war. Audio, 31 minutesStephen Fry: The mental scars of Ukraine's war See the latest results, including Lotto, EuroMillions, Set for Life and Thunderball Scotland ALBA Wales Cymru NI Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
This video can not be played Starmer: 'We've got to take action to reduce the burden on the NHS' Sir Keir Starmer has confirmed the government is looking at tougher rules on outdoor smoking to reduce the number of preventable deaths linked to tobacco use.  Responding to reports that smoking could be banned in some outdoor spaces in England, the prime minister said "we have got to take action" to reduce the burden on the NHS. The details remain unclear but smoking could be banned in pub gardens, outdoor restaurants, and outside hospitals and sports grounds. Health experts have welcomed the plans, but the BBC has been told that some ministers have raised concerns about the impact the ban could have on the hospitality sector. Some business owners have already raised concerns. Pub landlady Lisa Burrage, 55, said pubs should be able to choose whether or not to go smoke-free and "it is not up to the government to make that decision". "This will be just another hurdle we have to face in hospitality and one we can do without," Ms Burrage told the BBC. But the PM stressed the health impact in his message.  Tobacco use is the UK's single biggest preventable cause of death, killing two-thirds of long-term users and causing 80,000 deaths every year. Health authorities also say there is no safe level of exposure to secondhand smoke. Any new ban would apply only to England. It is not yet clear if it would apply to the rest of the UK though devolved governments could choose to bring in similar rules. When questioned on the proposals, Sir Keir said the government was "going to take decisions in this space" and more details would be revealed. ГўВҖВңI think itГўВҖВҷs important to get the balance right," he said, adding that the NHS was "on its knees". The King's Speech at the state opening of Parliament last month promised to reintroduce legislation proposed by the previous government, which would have outlawed the sale of tobacco to anyone born on or after January 2009. Smoking decline stalls since pandemic, report finds More young, affluent women may be smoking - study Health professionals have welcomed the proposals. Dr Layla McCay of the NHS Confederation told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the plans would reduce "the huge problems that are caused to the individual and to society from smoking." Deborah Arnott, chief executive of the charity Action on Smoking and Health, said the public expected "not to have to breathe in tobacco smoke in places like children's play areas and seating areas outside pubs, restaurants and cafГғВ©s". But she added it was important to ensure that there were still outdoor areas for people to "smoke in the open air, rather than inside their homes".  But those from the hospitality sector are worried the ban will hurt businesses.  "This needs to be thought through very carefully before we damage businesses and economic growth and jobs," Kate Nicholls, chief executive of trade group UK Hospitality, told the Today programme. But JD Wetherspoon founder Tim Martin said: "I don't think it will have a big effect on our business, one way or another." The political opposition, including Conservative leadership contenders, have criticised the proposals as over-regulation. Priti Patel, the former home secretary, said the plans amounted to "nanny state regulation" that would be "economically damaging". Former Home Office Minister Robert Jenrick said: "The last thing this country needs is thousands more pubs closing." Reform UK leader Nigel Farage described the proposals as "government overreach on a scale that is utterly ridiculous".  "Frankly, if they do this, it will be the death knell of the pub," he told the BBC. About 12.9% of people aged 18 and over in the UK - or about 6.4 million people - smoked cigarettes in 2022 according to the most recently available data from the Office for National Statistics. That is the lowest proportion of current smokers since records began in 2011. Those aged 25-34 age represent the highest proportion of smokers, while the lowest are those aged 65 and over. In England alone, smoking caused an estimated 74,600 deaths in 2019, according to NHS England's latest available data. There were 408,700 hospital admissions in England due to smoking in 2022-23. In its guidance about passive or secondhand smoke, Cancer Research UK says all forms of exposure to smoking are "unsafe" while the NHS says secondhand smoke is "a lethal cocktail of more than 4,000 irritants, toxins and cancer-causing substances".   Are you more likely to go to pubs as a result of this ban? Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
This video can not be played Starmer: 'We've got to take action to reduce the burden on the NHS' Sir Keir Starmer has confirmed the government is looking at tougher rules on outdoor smoking to reduce the number of preventable deaths linked to tobacco use.  Responding to reports that smoking could be banned in some outdoor spaces in England, the prime minister said "we have got to take action" to reduce the burden on the NHS. The details remain unclear but smoking could be banned in pub gardens, outdoor restaurants, and outside hospitals and sports grounds. Health experts have welcomed the plans, but the BBC has been told that some ministers have raised concerns about the impact the ban could have on the hospitality sector. Some business owners have already raised concerns. Pub landlady Lisa Burrage, 55, said pubs should be able to choose whether or not to go smoke-free and "it is not up to the government to make that decision". "This will be just another hurdle we have to face in hospitality and one we can do without," Ms Burrage told the BBC. But the PM stressed the health impact in his message.  Tobacco use is the UK's single biggest preventable cause of death, killing two-thirds of long-term users and causing 80,000 deaths every year. Health authorities also say there is no safe level of exposure to secondhand smoke. Any new ban would apply only to England. It is not yet clear if it would apply to the rest of the UK though devolved governments could choose to bring in similar rules. When questioned on the proposals, Sir Keir said the government was "going to take decisions in this space" and more details would be revealed. ГўВҖВңI think itГўВҖВҷs important to get the balance right," he said, adding that the NHS was "on its knees". The King's Speech at the state opening of Parliament last month promised to reintroduce legislation proposed by the previous government, which would have outlawed the sale of tobacco to anyone born on or after January 2009. Smoking decline stalls since pandemic, report finds More young, affluent women may be smoking - study Health professionals have welcomed the proposals. Dr Layla McCay of the NHS Confederation told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the plans would reduce "the huge problems that are caused to the individual and to society from smoking." Deborah Arnott, chief executive of the charity Action on Smoking and Health, said the public expected "not to have to breathe in tobacco smoke in places like children's play areas and seating areas outside pubs, restaurants and cafГғВ©s". But she added it was important to ensure that there were still outdoor areas for people to "smoke in the open air, rather than inside their homes".  But those from the hospitality sector are worried the ban will hurt businesses.  "This needs to be thought through very carefully before we damage businesses and economic growth and jobs," Kate Nicholls, chief executive of trade group UK Hospitality, told the Today programme. But JD Wetherspoon founder Tim Martin said: "I don't think it will have a big effect on our business, one way or another." The political opposition, including Conservative leadership contenders, have criticised the proposals as over-regulation. Priti Patel, the former home secretary, said the plans amounted to "nanny state regulation" that would be "economically damaging". Former Home Office Minister Robert Jenrick said: "The last thing this country needs is thousands more pubs closing." Reform UK leader Nigel Farage described the proposals as "government overreach on a scale that is utterly ridiculous".  "Frankly, if they do this, it will be the death knell of the pub," he told the BBC. About 12.9% of people aged 18 and over in the UK - or about 6.4 million people - smoked cigarettes in 2022 according to the most recently available data from the Office for National Statistics. That is the lowest proportion of current smokers since records began in 2011. Those aged 25-34 age represent the highest proportion of smokers, while the lowest are those aged 65 and over. In England alone, smoking caused an estimated 74,600 deaths in 2019, according to NHS England's latest available data. There were 408,700 hospital admissions in England due to smoking in 2022-23. In its guidance about passive or secondhand smoke, Cancer Research UK says all forms of exposure to smoking are "unsafe" while the NHS says secondhand smoke is "a lethal cocktail of more than 4,000 irritants, toxins and cancer-causing substances".   Are you more likely to go to pubs as a result of this ban? Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Israeli military - pictured here on Wednesday - has conducted raids in a number of West Bank cities over the past two days Five more Palestinians have been killed by Israeli forces in a second day of raids in the occupied West Bank, with the UN calling for de-escalation. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said they were "five terrorists who had hidden inside a mosque" in Tulkarm, near the boundary with Israel. Israel began what it said was a major counter-terrorism operation in the West Bank on Wednesday. There have been conflicting death tolls as the operation unfolded across multiple cities.  The IDF said yesterday that nine militants had been killed, five in Jenin and Tulkarm, and four in al-Faraa refugee camp. The Palestinian health ministry said on Thursday that 12 people had been killed in IDF attacks so far. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres has called on Israel to immediately halt its operation, saying it was "fuelling an already explosive situation". He urged Israeli forces to "exercise maximum restraint and use lethal force only when it is strictly unavoidable". The IDF said the five Palestinians were killed after "exchanges of fire" in Tulkarm. It identified one of the fatalities as Mohammed Jaber - also known as Abu Shujaa - who was reportedly the local leader of the Tulkarem Brigade, which is backed by the Palestinian Islamic Jihad militant group. The IDF said Jaber was linked to a number of attacks on Israelis, and was planning more. Elsewhere, in Jenin, ambulances are stopped and checked by military jeeps parked around the government hospital as security forces continue their operation in the city's refugee camp. The camp is a base for armed groups, as well as a home to unarmed civilians, and has been the scene of many fierce gun battles in the past. There's little news coming out from the camp at the moment, with Israeli forces blocking access and Palestinian phone networks down. Residents, medics and journalists have been trying to read the situation inside from the occasional explosions and bursts of gunfire heard since last night. One person inside told the BBC that it appears calm at the moment, and they can hear drones buzzing overhead. It is the second day of what Israeli media say could be a days-long operation in the West Bank. The Israeli military said it had made arrests and seized weapons. Homes and infrastructure were damaged in the attacks, Palestinians said. It is the largest such action in the West Bank since the days of the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising, two decades ago. At least 10 Palestinians killed in Israeli raids in West Bank Israeli settlers are seizing Palestinian land under cover of war - they hope permanently Six killed in West Bank strike and settler attack, Palestinian ministry says Israel's ambassador to the UN, Danny Danon, said the operation has a "clear goal: preventing Iranian terror-by-proxy that would harm Israeli civilians". In recent days Israeli politicians have accused Iran - which backs both Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad - of trying to smuggle in explosive devices with the aim of attacking Israel. Israel "cannot sit idly by and wait for the spectacle of buses and cafes exploding in city centres", Mr Danon said in a post on X. There has been a spike in violence in the West Bank since Hamas's 7 October attack on Israel, and the subsequent war in Gaza. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Israel's operation in the West Bank "must not constitute the premises of a war extension from Gaza". Elsewhere on Thursday, Mr Borrell said he was starting the process of asking EU members if they want to impose sanctions on "some Israeli ministers". He accused the ministers - who he has not named - of "launching unacceptable hate messages against the Palestinians, and proposing things that clearly go against international law". Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue 'I stole to order' for other shops, says prolific ex-shoplifter Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast 'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009 Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal 'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?' 'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad' Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow? Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations Russell Kane is looking for alien life Old grudges, new rivalries... 'I betrayed the game I loved' The lives of Africa's biggest felines ГӮВ© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
