 Cutting-edge framework for orchestrating role-playing, autonomous AI agents. By fostering collaborative intelligence, CrewAI empowers agents to work together seamlessly, tackling complex tasks.
 Cutting-edge framework for orchestrating role-playing, autonomous AI agents. By fostering collaborative intelligence, CrewAI empowers agents to work together seamlessly, tackling complex tasks.
 Cutting-edge framework for orchestrating role-playing, autonomous AI agents. By fostering collaborative intelligence, CrewAI empowers agents to work together seamlessly, tackling complex tasks.
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
What is an Agent? An agent is an autonomous unit programmed to:

Perform tasks
Make decisions
Communicate with other agents


Think of an agent as a member of a team, with specific skills and a particular job to do. Agents can have different roles like 'Researcher', 'Writer', or 'Customer Support', each contributing to the overall goal of the crew. Agent Interaction Agents can interact with each other using crewAI's built-in delegation and communication mechanisms. This allows for dynamic task management and problem-solving within the crew. To create an agent, you would typically initialize an instance of the Agent class with the desired properties. Here's a conceptual example including all attributes: Prompt templates are used to format the prompt for the agent. You can use to update the system, regular and response templates for the agent. Here's an example of how to set prompt templates: Extend your Third Party Agents like LlamaIndex, Langchain, Autogen or fully custom agents using the the crewai's BaseAgent class. BaseAgent includes attributes and methods required to integrate with your crews to run and delegate tasks to other agents within your own crew. CrewAI is a universal multi agent framework that allows for all agents to work together to automate tasks and solve problems. Agents are the building blocks of the CrewAI framework. By understanding how to define and interact with agents, you can create sophisticated AI systems that leverage the power of collaborative intelligence.
What is a Task? In the crewAI framework, tasks are specific assignments completed by agents. They provide all necessary details for execution, such as a description, the agent responsible, required tools, and more, facilitating a wide range of action complexities. Tasks within crewAI can be collaborative, requiring multiple agents to work together. This is managed through the task properties and orchestrated by the Crew's process, enhancing teamwork and efficiency. Creating a task involves defining its scope, responsible agent, and any additional attributes for flexibility: Task Assignment Directly specify an agent for assignment or let the hierarchical CrewAI's process decide based on roles, availability, etc. Understanding Task Outputs The output of a task in the crewAI framework is encapsulated within the TaskOutput class. This class provides a structured way to access results of a task, including various formats such as raw strings, JSON, and Pydantic models.
By default, the TaskOutput will only include the raw output. A TaskOutput will only include the pydantic or json_dict output if the original Task object was configured with output_pydantic or output_json, respectively. Once a task has been executed, its output can be accessed through the output attribute of the Task object. The TaskOutput class provides various ways to interact with and present this output. Leverage tools from the crewAI Toolkit and LangChain Tools for enhanced task performance and agent interaction. This demonstrates how tasks with specific tools can override an agent's default set for tailored task execution. In crewAI, the output of one task is automatically relayed into the next one, but you can specifically define what tasks' output, including multiple, should be used as context for another task. This is useful when you have a task that depends on the output of another task that is not performed immediately after it. This is done through the context attribute of the task: You can define a task to be executed asynchronously. This means that the crew will not wait for it to be completed to continue with the next task. This is useful for tasks that take a long time to be completed, or that are not crucial for the next tasks to be performed. You can then use the context attribute to define in a future task that it should wait for the output of the asynchronous task to be completed. The callback function is executed after the task is completed, allowing for actions or notifications to be triggered based on the task's outcome. Once a crew finishes running, you can access the output of a specific task by using the output attribute of the task object: Specifying tools in a task allows for dynamic adaptation of agent capabilities, emphasizing CrewAI's flexibility. While creating and executing tasks, certain validation mechanisms are in place to ensure the robustness and reliability of task attributes. These include but are not limited to: These validations help in maintaining the consistency and reliability of task executions within the crewAI framework. You can now specify if a task should create directories when saving its output to a file. This is particularly useful for organizing outputs and ensuring that file paths are correctly structured. Tasks are the driving force behind the actions of agents in crewAI. By properly defining tasks and their outcomes, you set the stage for your AI agents to work effectively, either independently or as a collaborative unit. Equipping tasks with appropriate tools, understanding the execution process, and following robust validation practices are crucial for maximizing CrewAI's potential, ensuring agents are effectively prepared for their assignments and that tasks are executed as intended.
CrewAI tools empower agents with capabilities ranging from web searching and data analysis to collaboration and delegating tasks among coworkers. This documentation outlines how to create, integrate, and leverage these tools within the CrewAI framework, including a new focus on collaboration tools. Definition A tool in CrewAI is a skill or function that agents can utilize to perform various actions. This includes tools from the crewAI Toolkit and LangChain Tools, enabling everything from simple searches to complex interactions and effective teamwork among agents. To enhance your agents' capabilities with crewAI tools, begin by installing our extra tools package: Here's an example demonstrating their use: Here is a list of the available tools and their descriptions: Custom Tool Creation Developers can craft custom tools tailored for their agent’s needs or utilize pre-built options: To create your own crewAI tools you will need to install our extra tools package: Once you do that there are two main ways for one to create a crewAI tool: Caching Tools can optionally implement a cache_function to fine-tune caching behavior. This function determines when to cache results based on specific conditions, offering granular control over caching logic. Tools are pivotal in extending the capabilities of CrewAI agents, enabling them to undertake a broad spectrum of tasks and collaborate effectively. When building solutions with CrewAI, leverage both custom and existing tools to empower your agents and enhance the AI ecosystem. Consider utilizing error handling, caching mechanisms, and the flexibility of tool arguments to optimize your agents' performance and capabilities.
Core Concept In CrewAI, processes orchestrate the execution of tasks by agents, akin to project management in human teams. These processes ensure tasks are distributed and executed efficiently, in alignment with a predefined strategy. Processes enable individual agents to operate as a cohesive unit, streamlining their efforts to achieve common objectives with efficiency and coherence. To assign a process to a crew, specify the process type upon crew creation to set the execution strategy. For a hierarchical process, ensure to define manager_llm or manager_agent for the manager agent. from crewai import Crew
from crewai.process import Process
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI

# Example: Creating a crew with a sequential process
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.sequential
)

# Example: Creating a crew with a hierarchical process
# Ensure to provide a manager_llm or manager_agent
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.hierarchical,
    manager_llm=ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4")
    # or
    # manager_agent=my_manager_agent
)

Note: Ensure my_agents and my_tasks are defined prior to creating a Crew object, and for the hierarchical process, either manager_llm or manager_agent is also required. This method mirrors dynamic team workflows, progressing through tasks in a thoughtful and systematic manner. Task execution follows the predefined order in the task list, with the output of one task serving as context for the next. To customize task context, utilize the context parameter in the Task class to specify outputs that should be used as context for subsequent tasks. Emulates a corporate hierarchy, CrewAI allows specifying a custom manager agent or automatically creates one, requiring the specification of a manager language model (manager_llm). This agent oversees task execution, including planning, delegation, and validation. Tasks are not pre-assigned; the manager allocates tasks to agents based on their capabilities, reviews outputs, and assesses task completion. The Process class is implemented as an enumeration (Enum), ensuring type safety and restricting process values to the defined types (sequential, hierarchical). The consensual process is planned for future inclusion, emphasizing our commitment to continuous development and innovation. The structured collaboration facilitated by processes within CrewAI is crucial for enabling systematic teamwork among agents. This documentation has been updated to reflect the latest features, enhancements, and the planned integration of the Consensual Process, ensuring users have access to the most current and comprehensive information.
A crew in crewAI represents a collaborative group of agents working together to achieve a set of tasks. Each crew defines the strategy for task execution, agent collaboration, and the overall workflow. Crew Max RPM The max_rpm attribute sets the maximum number of requests per minute the crew can perform to avoid rate limits and will override individual agents' max_rpm settings if you set it. When assembling a crew, you combine agents with complementary roles and tools, assign tasks, and select a process that dictates their execution order and interaction. Understanding Crew Outputs The output of a crew in the crewAI framework is encapsulated within the CrewOutput class.
This class provides a structured way to access results of the crew's execution, including various formats such as raw strings, JSON, and Pydantic models.
The CrewOutput includes the results from the final task output, token usage, and individual task outputs. Once a crew has been executed, its output can be accessed through the output attribute of the Crew object. The CrewOutput class provides various ways to interact with and present this output. Crews can utilize memory (short-term, long-term, and entity memory) to enhance their execution and learning over time. This feature allows crews to store and recall execution memories, aiding in decision-making and task execution strategies. Caches can be employed to store the results of tools' execution, making the process more efficient by reducing the need to re-execute identical tasks. After the crew execution, you can access the usage_metrics attribute to view the language model (LLM) usage metrics for all tasks executed by the crew. This provides insights into operational efficiency and areas for improvement. Once your crew is assembled, initiate the workflow with the kickoff() method. This starts the execution process according to the defined process flow. Once your crew is assembled, initiate the workflow with the appropriate kickoff method. CrewAI provides several methods for better control over the kickoff process: kickoff(), kickoff_for_each(), kickoff_async(), and kickoff_for_each_async(). These methods provide flexibility in how you manage and execute tasks within your crew, allowing for both synchronous and asynchronous workflows tailored to your needs. You can now replay from a specific task using our CLI command replay. The replay feature in CrewAI allows you to replay from a specific task using the command-line interface (CLI). By running the command crewai replay -t <task_id>, you can specify the task_id for the replay process. Kickoffs will now save the latest kickoffs returned task outputs locally for you to be able to replay from. To use the replay feature, follow these steps: To view the latest kickoff task IDs, use: Then, to replay from a specific task, use: These commands let you replay from your latest kickoff tasks, still retaining context from previously executed tasks.
Core of Agent Interaction Collaboration in CrewAI is fundamental, enabling agents to combine their skills, share information, and assist each other in task execution, embodying a truly cooperative ecosystem. The Crew class has been enriched with several attributes to support advanced functionalities: Delegation enhances functionality by allowing agents to intelligently assign tasks or seek help, thereby amplifying the crew's overall capability. Setting up a crew involves defining the roles and capabilities of each agent. CrewAI seamlessly manages their interactions, ensuring efficient collaboration and delegation, with enhanced customization and monitoring features to adapt to various operational needs. Consider a crew with a researcher agent tasked with data gathering and a writer agent responsible for compiling reports. The integration of advanced language model management and process flow attributes allows for more sophisticated interactions, such as the writer delegating complex research tasks to the researcher or querying specific information, thereby facilitating a seamless workflow. The integration of advanced attributes and functionalities into the CrewAI framework significantly enriches the agent collaboration ecosystem. These enhancements not only simplify interactions but also offer unprecedented flexibility and control, paving the way for sophisticated AI-driven solutions capable of tackling complex tasks through intelligent collaboration and delegation.
A pipeline in crewAI represents a structured workflow that allows for the sequential or parallel execution of multiple crews. It provides a way to organize complex processes involving multiple stages, where the output of one stage can serve as input for subsequent stages. Understanding the following terms is crucial for working effectively with pipelines: Example pipeline structure: This represents a pipeline with three stages: Each input creates its own run, flowing through all stages of the pipeline. Multiple runs can be processed concurrently, each following the defined pipeline structure. When creating a pipeline, you define a series of stages, each consisting of either a single crew or a list of crews for parallel execution. The pipeline ensures that each stage is executed in order, with the output of one stage feeding into the next. Understanding Pipeline Outputs The output of a pipeline in the crewAI framework is encapsulated within the PipelineKickoffResult class. This class provides a structured way to access the results of the pipeline's execution, including various formats such as raw strings, JSON, and Pydantic models. Once a pipeline has been executed, its output can be accessed through the PipelineOutput object returned by the process_runs method. The PipelineOutput class provides access to individual PipelineRunResult objects, each representing a single run through the pipeline. This example demonstrates how to access and work with the pipeline output, including individual run results and their associated data. Pipelines are particularly useful for complex workflows that involve multiple stages of processing, analysis, or content generation. They allow you to: You can define parallel execution within a stage by providing a list of crews, creating multiple branches: Routers are a powerful feature in crewAI pipelines that allow for dynamic decision-making and branching within your workflow. They enable you to direct the flow of execution based on specific conditions or criteria, making your pipelines more flexible and adaptive. A router in crewAI is a special component that can be included as a stage in your pipeline. It evaluates the input data and determines which path the execution should take next. This allows for conditional branching in your pipeline, where different crews or sub-pipelines can be executed based on the router's decision. Here's an example of how to create a router: In this example, the router decides between an urgent pipeline and a normal pipeline based on the urgency score of the email. If the urgency score is greater than 7, it routes to the urgent pipeline; otherwise, it uses the normal pipeline. If the input doesn't include an urgency score, it defaults to just the classification crew. The Pipeline class includes validation mechanisms to ensure the robustness of the pipeline structure:
The training feature in CrewAI allows you to train your AI agents using the command-line interface (CLI). By running the command crewai train -n <n_iterations>, you can specify the number of iterations for the training process. During training, CrewAI utilizes techniques to optimize the performance of your agents along with human feedback. This helps the agents improve their understanding, decision-making, and problem-solving abilities. To use the training feature, follow these steps: Replace <n_iterations> with the desired number of training iterations and <filename> with the appropriate filename ending with .pkl. To train your crew programmatically, use the following steps: It is important to note that the training process may take some time, depending on the complexity of your agents and will also require your feedback on each iteration. Once the training is complete, your agents will be equipped with enhanced capabilities and knowledge, ready to tackle complex tasks and provide more consistent and valuable insights. Remember to regularly update and retrain your agents to ensure they stay up-to-date with the latest information and advancements in the field. Happy training with CrewAI!
Enhancing Agent Intelligence The crewAI framework introduces a sophisticated memory system designed to significantly enhance the capabilities of AI agents. This system comprises short-term memory, long-term memory, entity memory, and contextual memory, each serving a unique purpose in aiding agents to remember, reason, and learn from past interactions. Contextual Awareness: With short-term and contextual memory, agents gain the ability to maintain context over a conversation or task sequence, leading to more coherent and relevant responses. Experience Accumulation: Long-term memory allows agents to accumulate experiences, learning from past actions to improve future decision-making and problem-solving. Entity Understanding: By maintaining entity memory, agents can recognize and remember key entities, enhancing their ability to process and interact with complex information. When configuring a crew, you can enable and customize each memory component to suit the crew's objectives and the nature of tasks it will perform.
By default, the memory system is disabled, and you can ensure it is active by setting memory=True in the crew configuration. The memory will use OpenAI Embeddings by default, but you can change it by setting embedder to a different model. The 'embedder' only applies to Short-Term Memory which uses Chroma for RAG using EmbedChain package.
The Long-Term Memory uses SQLLite3 to store task results.  Currently, there is no way to override these storage implementations.
The data storage files are saved into a platform specific location found using the appdirs package
and the name of the project which can be overridden using the CREWAI_STORAGE_DIR environment variable. Default: False -s, --short Default: False -e, --entities Default: False -k, --kickoff-outputs Default: False -a, --all Integrating crewAI's memory system into your projects is straightforward. By leveraging the provided memory components and configurations, you can quickly empower your agents with the ability to remember, reason, and learn from their interactions, unlocking new levels of intelligence and capability.
The planning feature in CrewAI allows you to add planning capability to your crew. When enabled, before each Crew iteration, all Crew information is sent to an AgentPlanner that will plan the tasks step by step, and this plan will be added to each task description. Getting started with the planning feature is very easy, the only step required is to add planning=True to your Crew: From this point on, your crew will have planning enabled, and the tasks will be planned before each iteration. Now you can define the LLM that will be used to plan the tasks. You can use any ChatOpenAI LLM model available. When running the base case example, you will see something like the following output, which represents the output of the AgentPlanner responsible for creating the step-by-step logic to add to the Agents tasks.
Testing is a crucial part of the development process, and it is essential to ensure that your crew is performing as expected. With crewAI, you can easily test your crew and evaluate its performance using the built-in testing capabilities. We added the CLI command crewai test to make it easy to test your crew. This command will run your crew for a specified number of iterations and provide detailed performance metrics. The parameters are n_iterations and model which are optional and default to 2 and gpt-4o-mini respectively. For now, the only provider available is OpenAI. If you want to run more iterations or use a different model, you can specify the parameters like this: When you run the crewai test command, the crew will be executed for the specified number of iterations, and the performance metrics will be displayed at the end of the run. A table of scores at the end will show the performance of the crew in terms of the following metrics: The example above shows the test results for two runs of the crew with two tasks, with the average total score for each task and the crew as a whole.
LangChain Integration CrewAI seamlessly integrates with LangChain’s comprehensive toolkit for search-based queries and more, here are the available built-in tools that are offered by Langchain LangChain Toolkit Tools are pivotal in extending the capabilities of CrewAI agents, enabling them to undertake a broad spectrum of tasks and collaborate effectively. When building solutions with CrewAI, leverage both custom and existing tools to empower your agents and enhance the AI ecosystem. Consider utilizing error handling, caching mechanisms, and the flexibility of tool arguments to optimize your agents' performance and capabilities.
LlamaIndex Integration CrewAI seamlessly integrates with LlamaIndex’s comprehensive toolkit for RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) and agentic pipelines, enabling advanced search-based queries and more. Here are the available built-in tools offered by LlamaIndex. To effectively use the LlamaIndexTool, follow these steps: Package Installation: Confirm that the crewai[tools] package is installed in your Python environment. Install and Use LlamaIndex: Follow LlamaIndex documentation LlamaIndex Documentation to set up a RAG/agent pipeline.
This guide provides detailed instructions on creating custom tools for the crewAI framework and how to efficiently manage and utilize these tools, incorporating the latest functionalities such as tool delegation, error handling, and dynamic tool calling. It also highlights the importance of collaboration tools, enabling agents to perform a wide range of actions. Before creating your own tools, ensure you have the crewAI extra tools package installed: To create a personalized tool, inherit from BaseTool and define the necessary attributes and the _run method. Alternatively, you can use the tool decorator @tool. This approach allows you to define the tool's attributes and functionality directly within a function, offering a concise and efficient way to create specialized tools tailored to your needs. To optimize tool performance with caching, define custom caching strategies using the cache_function attribute. By adhering to these guidelines and incorporating new functionalities and collaboration tools into your tool creation and management processes, you can leverage the full capabilities of the crewAI framework, enhancing both the development experience and the efficiency of your AI agents.
CrewAI offers a flexible framework for executing tasks in a structured manner, supporting both sequential and hierarchical processes. This guide outlines how to effectively implement these processes to ensure efficient task execution and project completion. The sequential process ensures tasks are executed one after the other, following a linear progression. This approach is ideal for projects requiring tasks to be completed in a specific order. To use the sequential process, assemble your crew and define tasks in the order they need to be executed. In sequential processes, if an agent has allow_delegation set to True, they can delegate tasks to other agents in the crew. This feature is automatically set up when there are multiple agents in the crew. Tasks can be executed asynchronously, allowing for parallel processing when appropriate. To create an asynchronous task, set async_execution=True when defining the task. CrewAI supports both memory and caching features:
- Memory: Enable by setting memory=True when creating the Crew. This allows agents to retain information across tasks.
- Caching: By default, caching is enabled. Set cache=False to disable it. You can set callbacks at both the task and step level:
- task_callback: Executed after each task completion.
- step_callback: Executed after each step in an agent's execution. CrewAI tracks token usage across all tasks and agents. You can access these metrics after execution.
The hierarchical process in CrewAI introduces a structured approach to task management, simulating traditional organizational hierarchies for efficient task delegation and execution. This systematic workflow enhances project outcomes by ensuring tasks are handled with optimal efficiency and accuracy. Complexity and Efficiency The hierarchical process is designed to leverage advanced models like GPT-4, optimizing token usage while handling complex tasks with greater efficiency. By default, tasks in CrewAI are managed through a sequential process. However, adopting a hierarchical approach allows for a clear hierarchy in task management, where a 'manager' agent coordinates the workflow, delegates tasks, and validates outcomes for streamlined and effective execution. This manager agent can now be either automatically created by CrewAI or explicitly set by the user. To utilize the hierarchical process, it's essential to explicitly set the process attribute to Process.hierarchical, as the default behavior is Process.sequential. Define a crew with a designated manager and establish a clear chain of command. Tools and Agent Assignment Assign tools at the agent level to facilitate task delegation and execution by the designated agents under the manager's guidance. Tools can also be specified at the task level for precise control over tool availability during task execution. Manager LLM Requirement Configuring the manager_llm parameter is crucial for the hierarchical process. The system requires a manager LLM to be set up for proper function, ensuring tailored decision-making. Adopting the hierarchical process in CrewAI, with the correct configurations and understanding of the system's capabilities, facilitates an organized and efficient approach to project management. Utilize the advanced features and customizations to tailor the workflow to your specific needs, ensuring optimal task execution and project success.
CrewAI allows users to set a specific agent as the manager of the crew, providing more control over the management and coordination of tasks. This feature enables the customization of the managerial role to better fit your project's requirements. The manager_agent attribute allows you to define a custom agent to manage the crew. This agent will oversee the entire process, ensuring that tasks are completed efficiently and to the highest standard. If you're using the hierarchical process and don't want to set a custom manager agent, you can specify the language model for the manager: Note: Either manager_agent or manager_llm must be set when using the hierarchical process.
Default LLM By default, CrewAI uses OpenAI's GPT-4o model (specifically, the model specified by the OPENAI_MODEL_NAME environment variable, defaulting to "gpt-4o") for language processing. You can configure your agents to use a different model or API as described in this guide.
By default, CrewAI uses OpenAI's GPT-4 model (specifically, the model specified by the OPENAI_MODEL_NAME environment variable, defaulting to "gpt-4") for language processing. You can configure your agents to use a different model or API as described in this guide. CrewAI provides extensive versatility in integrating with various Language Models (LLMs), including local options through Ollama such as Llama and Mixtral to cloud-based solutions like Azure. Its compatibility extends to all LangChain LLM components, offering a wide range of integration possibilities for customized AI applications. The platform supports connections to an array of Generative AI models, including: This broad spectrum of LLM options enables users to select the most suitable model for their specific needs, whether prioritizing local deployment, specialized capabilities, or cloud-based scalability. The default LLM is provided through the langchain openai package, which is installed by default when you install CrewAI. You can change this default LLM to a different model or API by setting the OPENAI_MODEL_NAME environment variable. This straightforward process allows you to harness the power of different OpenAI models, enhancing the flexibility and capabilities of your CrewAI implementation.
# Required
os.environ["OPENAI_MODEL_NAME"]="gpt-4-0125-preview"

# Agent will automatically use the model defined in the environment variable
example_agent = Agent(
  role='Local Expert',
  goal='Provide insights about the city',
  backstory="A knowledgeable local guide.",
  verbose=True
)
 Ollama is preferred for local LLM integration, offering customization and privacy benefits. To integrate Ollama with CrewAI, you will need the langchain-ollama package. You can then set the following environment variables to connect to your Ollama instance running locally on port 11434. There are a couple of different ways you can use HuggingFace to host your LLM. Switch between APIs and models seamlessly using environment variables, supporting platforms like FastChat, LM Studio, Groq, and Mistral AI. Launch LM Studio and go to the Server tab. Then select a model from the dropdown menu and wait for it to load. Once it's loaded, click the green Start Server button and use the URL, port, and API key that's shown (you can modify them). Below is an example of the default settings as of LM Studio 0.2.19:
os.environ[OPENAI_API_BASE]="http://localhost:1234/v1"
os.environ[OPENAI_API_KEY]="lm-studio"
 from langchain_community.chat_models.solar import SolarChat

os.environ[SOLAR_API_BASE]="https://api.upstage.ai/v1/solar"
os.environ[SOLAR_API_KEY]="your-solar-api-key"
 For Azure OpenAI API integration, set the following environment variables:
os.environ[AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT] = "Your deployment"
os.environ["OPENAI_API_VERSION"] = "2023-12-01-preview"
os.environ["AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT"] = "Your Endpoint"
os.environ["AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "<Your API Key>"
 Integrating CrewAI with different LLMs expands the framework's versatility, allowing for customized, efficient AI solutions across various domains and platforms.
Crafting an efficient CrewAI team hinges on the ability to dynamically tailor your AI agents to meet the unique requirements of any project. This section covers the foundational attributes you can customize. Beyond the basic attributes, CrewAI allows for deeper customization to enhance an agent's behavior and capabilities significantly. Agents can be customized with specific language models (llm) and function-calling language models (function_calling_llm), offering advanced control over their processing and decision-making abilities. It's important to note that setting the function_calling_llm allows for overriding the default crew function-calling language model, providing a greater degree of customization. Adjusting an agent's performance and monitoring its operations are crucial for efficient task execution. The max_iter attribute allows users to define the maximum number of iterations an agent can perform for a single task, preventing infinite loops or excessively long executions. The default value is set to 25, providing a balance between thoroughness and efficiency. Once the agent approaches this number, it will try its best to give a good answer. Agents are customized by defining their attributes and tools during initialization. Tools are critical for an agent's functionality, enabling them to perform specialized tasks. The tools attribute should be an array of tools the agent can utilize, and it's initialized as an empty list by default. Tools can be added or modified post-agent initialization to adapt to new requirements. Controlling an agent's ability to delegate tasks or ask questions is vital for tailoring its autonomy and collaborative dynamics within the CrewAI framework. By default, the allow_delegation attribute is set to True, enabling agents to seek assistance or delegate tasks as needed. This default behavior promotes collaborative problem-solving and efficiency within the CrewAI ecosystem. If needed, delegation can be disabled to suit specific operational requirements. Customizing agents in CrewAI by setting their roles, goals, backstories, and tools, alongside advanced options like language model customization, memory, performance settings, and delegation preferences, equips a nuanced and capable AI team ready for complex challenges.
crewAI Agents now have the powerful ability to write and execute code, significantly enhancing their problem-solving capabilities. This feature is particularly useful for tasks that require computational or programmatic solutions. To enable code execution for an agent, set the allow_code_execution parameter to True when creating the agent. Here's an example: Note: The allow_code_execution parameter defaults to False. Model Selection: It is strongly recommended to use more capable models like Claude 3.5 Sonnet and GPT-4 when enabling code execution. These models have a better understanding of programming concepts and are more likely to generate correct and efficient code. Error Handling: The code execution feature includes error handling. If executed code raises an exception, the agent will receive the error message and can attempt to correct the code or provide alternative solutions. The max_retry_limit parameter, which defaults to 2, controls the maximum number of retries for a task. Dependencies: To use the code execution feature, you need to install the crewai_tools package. If not installed, the agent will log an info message: "Coding tools not available. Install crewai_tools." When an agent with code execution enabled encounters a task requiring programming: Here's a detailed example of creating an agent with code execution capabilities and using it in a task: In this example, the coding_agent can write and execute Python code to perform data analysis tasks.
In CrewAI, you can force the output of a tool as the result of an agent's task. This feature is useful when you want to ensure that the tool output is captured and returned as the task result, and avoid the agent modifying the output during the task execution. To force the tool output as the result of an agent's task, you can set the result_as_answer parameter to True when creating the agent. This parameter ensures that the tool output is captured and returned as the task result, without any modifications by the agent. Here's an example of how to force the tool output as the result of an agent's task:
Human input is critical in several agent execution scenarios, allowing agents to request additional information or clarification when necessary. This feature is especially useful in complex decision-making processes or when agents require more details to complete a task effectively. To integrate human input into agent execution, set the human_input flag in the task definition. When enabled, the agent prompts the user for input before delivering its final answer. This input can provide extra context, clarify ambiguities, or validate the agent's output.
CrewAI provides the ability to kickoff a crew asynchronously, allowing you to start the crew execution in a non-blocking manner. This feature is particularly useful when you want to run multiple crews concurrently or when you need to perform other tasks while the crew is executing. To kickoff a crew asynchronously, use the kickoff_async() method. This method initiates the crew execution in a separate thread, allowing the main thread to continue executing other tasks. Here's an example of how to kickoff a crew asynchronously:
CrewAI provides the ability to kickoff a crew for each item in a list, allowing you to execute the crew for each item in the list. This feature is particularly useful when you need to perform the same set of tasks for multiple items. To kickoff a crew for each item in a list, use the kickoff_for_each() method. This method executes the crew for each item in the list, allowing you to process multiple items efficiently. Here's an example of how to kickoff a crew for each item in a list:
CrewAI provides the ability to replay from a task specified from the latest crew kickoff. This feature is particularly useful when you've finished a kickoff and may want to retry certain tasks or don't need to refetch data over and your agents already have the context saved from the kickoff execution so you just need to replay the tasks you want to. You must run crew.kickoff() before you can replay a task. Currently, only the latest kickoff is supported, so if you use kickoff_for_each, it will only allow you to replay from the most recent crew run. Here's an example of how to replay from a task: To use the replay feature, follow these steps: Once you have your task_id to replay from use:
crewai replay -t <task_id>
 To replay from a task programmatically, use the following steps:
Conditional Tasks in crewAI allow for dynamic workflow adaptation based on the outcomes of previous tasks. This powerful feature enables crews to make decisions and execute tasks selectively, enhancing the flexibility and efficiency of your AI-driven processes.
Observability is a key aspect of developing and deploying conversational AI agents. It allows developers to understand how their agents are performing, how their agents are interacting with users, and how their agents use external tools and APIs. AgentOps is a product independent of CrewAI that provides a comprehensive observability solution for agents. AgentOps provides session replays, metrics, and monitoring for agents. At a high level, AgentOps gives you the ability to monitor cost, token usage, latency, agent failures, session-wide statistics, and more. For more info, check out the AgentOps Repo. AgentOps provides monitoring for agents in development and production. It provides a dashboard for tracking agent performance, session replays, and custom reporting. Additionally, AgentOps provides session drilldowns for viewing Crew agent interactions, LLM calls, and tool usage in real-time. This feature is useful for debugging and understanding how agents interact with users as well as other agents. 

 Create an API Key:
   Create a user API key here: Create API Key Configure Your Environment:
   Add your API key to your environment variables Before using Crew in your script, include these lines: This will initiate an AgentOps session as well as automatically track Crew agents. For further info on how to outfit more complex agentic systems, check out the AgentOps documentation or join the Discord. To get started, create an AgentOps account. For feature requests or bug reports, please reach out to the AgentOps team on the AgentOps Repo. 🐦 Twitter
  •  
📢 Discord
  •  
🖇️ AgentOps Dashboard
  •  
📙 Documentation
Langtrace is an open-source, external tool that helps you set up observability and evaluations for Large Language Models (LLMs), LLM frameworks, and Vector Databases. While not built directly into CrewAI, Langtrace can be used alongside CrewAI to gain deep visibility into the cost, latency, and performance of your CrewAI Agents. This integration allows you to log hyperparameters, monitor performance regressions, and establish a process for continuous improvement of your Agents. To integrate Langtrace with your CrewAI project, follow these steps: Create your CrewAI agents and tasks as usual. Use Langtrace's tracking functions to monitor your CrewAI operations. For example: Example:
     with langtrace.trace("Agent Interaction"):
    agent_response = agent.execute(task)
 Trace Graph for Execution Steps Useful for identifying bottlenecks in your agent workflows. Dataset Curation with Manual Annotation Example:
     langtrace.log_dataset_item(task_input, agent_output, {"task_type": "research"})
 Prompt Versioning and Management Useful for A/B testing and optimizing agent performance. Prompt Playground with Model Comparisons Test and compare different prompts and models for your CrewAI agents before deployment. Testing and Evaluations CrewAI has introduced several new features that can be monitored using Langtrace: Code Execution: Monitor the performance and output of code executed by agents.
   with langtrace.trace("Agent Code Execution"):
    code_output = agent.execute_code(code_snippet)
 Third-party Agent Integration: Track interactions with LlamaIndex, LangChain, and Autogen agents.
Browserbase is a developer platform to reliably run, manage, and monitor headless browsers. Power your AI data retrievals with:
 - Serverless Infrastructure providing reliable browsers to extract data from complex UIs
 - Stealth Mode with included fingerprinting tactics and automatic captcha solving
 - Session Debugger to inspect your Browser Session with networks timeline and logs
 - Live Debug to quickly debug your automation Utilize the BrowserbaseLoadTool as follows to allow your agent to load websites:
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. The CodeDocsSearchTool is a powerful RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) tool designed for semantic searches within code documentation. It enables users to efficiently find specific information or topics within code documentation. By providing a docs_url during initialization, the tool narrows down the search to that particular documentation site. Alternatively, without a specific docs_url, it searches across a wide array of code documentation known or discovered throughout its execution, making it versatile for various documentation search needs. To start using the CodeDocsSearchTool, first, install the crewai_tools package via pip: Utilize the CodeDocsSearchTool as follows to conduct searches within code documentation: from crewai_tools import CodeDocsSearchTool

# To search any code documentation content if the URL is known or discovered during its execution:
tool = CodeDocsSearchTool()

# OR

# To specifically focus your search on a given documentation site by providing its URL:
tool = CodeDocsSearchTool(docs_url='https://docs.example.com/reference')

Note: Substitute 'https://docs.example.com/reference' with your target documentation URL and 'How to use search tool' with the search query relevant to your needs. By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
This tool enables the Agent to execute Python 3 code that it has generated autonomously. The code is run in a secure, isolated environment, ensuring safety regardless of the content.  This functionality is particularly valuable as it allows the Agent to create code, execute it within the same ecosystem, obtain the results, and utilize that information to inform subsequent decisions and actions. Install the crewai_tools package
pip install 'crewai[tools]'
 Remember that when using this tool, the code must be generated by the Agent itself. The code must be a Python3 code. And it will take some time for the first time to run because it needs to build the Docker image. We also provide a simple way to use it directly from the Agent.
This tools is a wrapper around the composio set of tools and gives your agent access to a wide variety of tools from the composio SDK. To incorporate this tool into your project, follow the installation instructions below: after the installation is complete, either run composio login or export your composio API key as COMPOSIO_API_KEY. The following example demonstrates how to initialize the tool and execute a github action: If you don't know what action you want to use, use from_app and tags filter to get relevant actions or use use_case to search relevant actions
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. This tool is used to perform a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) search within a CSV file's content. It allows users to semantically search for queries in the content of a specified CSV file. This feature is particularly useful for extracting information from large CSV datasets where traditional search methods might be inefficient. All tools with "Search" in their name, including CSVSearchTool, are RAG tools designed for searching different sources of data. Install the crewai_tools package By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
This tool is used to give the Agent the ability to generate images using the DALL-E model. It is a transformer-based model that generates images from textual descriptions. This tool allows the Agent to generate images based on the text input provided by the user. Install the crewai_tools package
pip install 'crewai[tools]'
 Remember that when using this tool, the text must be generated by the Agent itself. The text must be a description of the image you want to generate. If needed you can also tweak the parameters of the DALL-E model by passing them as arguments to the DallETool class. For example: The parameters are based on the client.images.generate method from the OpenAI API. For more information on the parameters, please refer to the OpenAI API documentation.
Experimental The DirectorySearchTool is under continuous development. Features and functionalities might evolve, and unexpected behavior may occur as we refine the tool. The DirectorySearchTool enables semantic search within the content of specified directories, leveraging the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) methodology for efficient navigation through files. Designed for flexibility, it allows users to dynamically specify search directories at runtime or set a fixed directory during initial setup. To use the DirectorySearchTool, begin by installing the crewai_tools package. Execute the following command in your terminal: Import the DirectorySearchTool from the crewai_tools package to start. You can initialize the tool without specifying a directory, enabling the setting of the search directory at runtime. Alternatively, the tool can be initialized with a predefined directory. The DirectorySearchTool uses OpenAI for embeddings and summarization by default. Customization options for these settings include changing the model provider and configuration, enhancing flexibility for advanced users.
This command installs the latest version of the crewai_tools package, granting access to the DirectoryReadTool among other utilities. Employing the DirectoryReadTool is straightforward. The following code snippet demonstrates how to set it up and use the tool to list the contents of a specified directory: The DirectoryReadTool requires minimal configuration for use. The essential argument for this tool is as follows:
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. The DOCXSearchTool is a RAG tool designed for semantic searching within DOCX documents. It enables users to effectively search and extract relevant information from DOCX files using query-based searches. This tool is invaluable for data analysis, information management, and research tasks, streamlining the process of finding specific information within large document collections. Install the crewai_tools package by running the following command in your terminal: The following example demonstrates initializing the DOCXSearchTool to search within any DOCX file's content or with a specific DOCX file path. By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
The EXASearchTool is designed to perform a semantic search for a specified query from a text's content across the internet. It utilizes the exa.ai API to fetch and display the most relevant search results based on the query provided by the user. To incorporate this tool into your project, follow the installation instructions below: The following example demonstrates how to initialize the tool and execute a search with a given query: To effectively use the EXASearchTool, follow these steps: By integrating the EXASearchTool into Python projects, users gain the ability to conduct real-time, relevant searches across the internet directly from their applications. By adhering to the setup and usage guidelines provided, incorporating this tool into projects is streamlined and straightforward.
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. The FileReadTool conceptually represents a suite of functionalities within the crewai_tools package aimed at facilitating file reading and content retrieval. This suite includes tools for processing batch text files, reading runtime configuration files, and importing data for analytics. It supports a variety of text-based file formats such as .txt, .csv, .json, and more. Depending on the file type, the suite offers specialized functionality, such as converting JSON content into a Python dictionary for ease of use. To utilize the functionalities previously attributed to the FileReadTool, install the crewai_tools package: To get started with the FileReadTool:
The FileWriterTool is a component of the crewai_tools package, designed to simplify the process of writing content to files. It is particularly useful in scenarios such as generating reports, saving logs, creating configuration files, and more. This tool supports creating new directories if they don't exist, making it easier to organize your output. Install the crewai_tools package to use the FileWriterTool in your projects: To get started with the FileWriterTool: By integrating the FileWriterTool into your crews, the agents can execute the process of writing content to files and creating directories. This tool is essential for tasks that require saving output data, creating structured file systems, and more. By adhering to the setup and usage guidelines provided, incorporating this tool into projects is straightforward and efficient.
Firecrawl is a platform for crawling and convert any website into clean markdown or structured data. Utilize the FirecrawlScrapeFromWebsiteTool as follows to allow your agent to load websites:
Firecrawl is a platform for crawling and convert any website into clean markdown or structured data. Utilize the FirecrawlScrapeWebsiteTool as follows to allow your agent to load websites:

Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. The GithubSearchTool is a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) tool specifically designed for conducting semantic searches within GitHub repositories. Utilizing advanced semantic search capabilities, it sifts through code, pull requests, issues, and repositories, making it an essential tool for developers, researchers, or anyone in need of precise information from GitHub. To use the GithubSearchTool, first ensure the crewai_tools package is installed in your Python environment: This command installs the necessary package to run the GithubSearchTool along with any other tools included in the crewai_tools package. Here’s how you can use the GithubSearchTool to perform semantic searches within a GitHub repository:
from crewai_tools import GithubSearchTool

# Initialize the tool for semantic searches within a specific GitHub repository
tool = GithubSearchTool(
    github_repo='https://github.com/example/repo',
    content_types=['code', 'issue'] # Options: code, repo, pr, issue
)

# OR

# Initialize the tool for semantic searches within a specific GitHub repository, so the agent can search any repository if it learns about during its execution
tool = GithubSearchTool(
    content_types=['code', 'issue'] # Options: code, repo, pr, issue
)
 By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. This tool is designed to perform a semantic search for a specified query from a text's content across the internet. It utilizes the serper.dev API to fetch and display the most relevant search results based on the query provided by the user. To incorporate this tool into your project, follow the installation instructions below:
pip install 'crewai[tools]'
 The following example demonstrates how to initialize the tool and execute a search with a given query: To effectively use the SerperDevTool, follow these steps: The SerperDevTool comes with several parameters that will be passed to the API : search_url: The URL endpoint for the search API. (Default is https://google.serper.dev/search) country: Optional. Specify the country for the search results. The values for country, location, locale and search_url can be found on the Serper Playground. Here is an example demonstrating how to use the tool with additional parameters: By integrating the SerperDevTool into Python projects, users gain the ability to conduct real-time, relevant searches across the internet directly from their applications. The updated parameters allow for more customized and localized search results. By adhering to the setup and usage guidelines provided, incorporating this tool into projects is streamlined and straightforward.
Experimental Status The JSONSearchTool is currently in an experimental phase. This means the tool is under active development, and users might encounter unexpected behavior or changes. We highly encourage feedback on any issues or suggestions for improvements. The JSONSearchTool is designed to facilitate efficient and precise searches within JSON file contents. It utilizes a RAG (Retrieve and Generate) search mechanism, allowing users to specify a JSON path for targeted searches within a particular JSON file. This capability significantly improves the accuracy and relevance of search results. To install the JSONSearchTool, use the following pip command: Here are updated examples on how to utilize the JSONSearchTool effectively for searching within JSON files. These examples take into account the current implementation and usage patterns identified in the codebase. The JSONSearchTool supports extensive customization through a configuration dictionary. This allows users to select different models for embeddings and summarization based on their requirements.
Experimental The MDXSearchTool is in continuous development. Features may be added or removed, and functionality could change unpredictably as we refine the tool. The MDX Search Tool is a component of the crewai_tools package aimed at facilitating advanced markdown language extraction. It enables users to effectively search and extract relevant information from MD files using query-based searches. This tool is invaluable for data analysis, information management, and research tasks, streamlining the process of finding specific information within large document collections. Before using the MDX Search Tool, ensure the crewai_tools package is installed. If it is not, you can install it with the following command: To use the MDX Search Tool, you must first set up the necessary environment variables. Then, integrate the tool into your crewAI project to begin your market research. Below is a basic example of how to do this: The tool defaults to using OpenAI for embeddings and summarization. For customization, utilize a configuration dictionary as shown below:
This tool is designed to facilitate semantic searches within MySQL database tables. Leveraging the RAG (Retrieve and Generate) technology, the MySQLSearchTool provides users with an efficient means of querying database table content, specifically tailored for MySQL databases. It simplifies the process of finding relevant data through semantic search queries, making it an invaluable resource for users needing to perform advanced queries on extensive datasets within a MySQL database. To install the crewai_tools package and utilize the MySQLSearchTool, execute the following command in your terminal: Below is an example showcasing how to use the MySQLSearchTool to conduct a semantic search on a table within a MySQL database: The MySQLSearchTool requires the following arguments for its operation: By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
This tool is used to convert natural language to SQL queries. When passsed to the agent it will generate queries and then use them to interact with the database. This enables multiple workflows like having an Agent to access the database fetch information based on the goal and then use the information to generate a response, report or any other output. Along with that proivdes the ability for the Agent to update the database based on its goal. Attention: Make sure that the Agent has access to a Read-Replica or that is okay for the Agent to run insert/update queries on the database. Install the crewai_tools package
pip install 'crewai[tools]'
 In order to use the NL2SQLTool, you need to pass the database URI to the tool. The URI should be in the format dialect+driver://username:password@host:port/database. The primary task goal was: "Retrieve the average, maximum, and minimum monthly revenue for each city, but only include cities that have more than one user. Also, count the number of user in each city and sort the results by the average monthly revenue in descending order" So the Agent tried to get information from the DB, the first one is wrong so the Agent tries again and gets the correct information and passes to the next agent. 
 The second task goal was: "Review the data and create a detailed report, and then create the table on the database with the fields based on the data provided.
Include information on the average, maximum, and minimum monthly revenue for each city, but only include cities that have more than one user. Also, count the number of users in each city and sort the results by the average monthly revenue in descending order." Now things start to get interesting, the Agent generates the SQL query to not only create the table but also insert the data into the table. And in the end the Agent still returns the final report which is exactly what was in the database. 
 
 This is a simple example of how the NL2SQLTool can be used to interact with the database and generate reports based on the data in the database. The Tool provides endless possibilities on the logic of the Agent and how it can interact with the database.
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. The PDFSearchTool is a RAG tool designed for semantic searches within PDF content. It allows for inputting a search query and a PDF document, leveraging advanced search techniques to find relevant content efficiently. This capability makes it especially useful for extracting specific information from large PDF files quickly. To get started with the PDFSearchTool, first, ensure the crewai_tools package is installed with the following command: Here's how to use the PDFSearchTool to search within a PDF document: By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
Under Development The PGSearchTool is currently under development. This document outlines the intended functionality and interface. As development progresses, please be aware that some features may not be available or could change. The PGSearchTool is envisioned as a powerful tool for facilitating semantic searches within PostgreSQL database tables. By leveraging advanced Retrieve and Generate (RAG) technology, it aims to provide an efficient means for querying database table content, specifically tailored for PostgreSQL databases. The tool's goal is to simplify the process of finding relevant data through semantic search queries, offering a valuable resource for users needing to conduct advanced queries on extensive datasets within a PostgreSQL environment. The crewai_tools package, which will include the PGSearchTool upon its release, can be installed using the following command: (Note: The PGSearchTool is not yet available in the current version of the crewai_tools package. This installation command will be updated once the tool is released.) Below is a proposed example showcasing how to use the PGSearchTool for conducting a semantic search on a table within a PostgreSQL database: The PGSearchTool is designed to require the following arguments for its operation: The tool intends to use OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization by default. Users will have the option to customize the model using a config dictionary as follows:
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. A tool designed to extract and read the content of a specified website. It is capable of handling various types of web pages by making HTTP requests and parsing the received HTML content. This tool can be particularly useful for web scraping tasks, data collection, or extracting specific information from websites. Install the crewai_tools package
pip install 'crewai[tools]'

Experimental This tool is currently in development. As we refine its capabilities, users may encounter unexpected behavior. Your feedback is invaluable to us for making improvements. The SeleniumScrapingTool is crafted for high-efficiency web scraping tasks. It allows for precise extraction of content from web pages by using CSS selectors to target specific elements. Its design caters to a wide range of scraping needs, offering flexibility to work with any provided website URL. To get started with the SeleniumScrapingTool, install the crewai_tools package using pip: Below are some scenarios where the SeleniumScrapingTool can be utilized: The following parameters can be used to customize the SeleniumScrapingTool's scraping process: Attention Since the SeleniumScrapingTool is under active development, the parameters and functionality may evolve over time. Users are encouraged to keep the tool updated and report any issues or suggestions for enhancements.
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. This tool is used to perform a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) search within the content of a text file. It allows for semantic searching of a query within a specified text file's content, making it an invaluable resource for quickly extracting information or finding specific sections of text based on the query provided. To use the TXTSearchTool, you first need to install the crewai_tools package. This can be done using pip, a package manager for Python. Open your terminal or command prompt and enter the following command: This command will download and install the TXTSearchTool along with any necessary dependencies. The following example demonstrates how to use the TXTSearchTool to search within a text file. This example shows both the initialization of the tool with a specific text file and the subsequent search within that file's content. By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
This tool is used to extract text from images. When passed to the agent it will extract the text from the image and then use it to generate a response, report or any other output. The URL or the PATH of the image should be passed to the Agent. Install the crewai_tools package
pip install 'crewai[tools]'
 In order to use the VisionTool, the OpenAI API key should be set in the environment variable OPENAI_API_KEY.
Experimental Status The WebsiteSearchTool is currently in an experimental phase. We are actively working on incorporating this tool into our suite of offerings and will update the documentation accordingly. The WebsiteSearchTool is designed as a concept for conducting semantic searches within the content of websites. It aims to leverage advanced machine learning models like Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to navigate and extract information from specified URLs efficiently. This tool intends to offer flexibility, allowing users to perform searches across any website or focus on specific websites of interest. Please note, the current implementation details of the WebsiteSearchTool are under development, and its functionalities as described may not yet be accessible. To prepare your environment for when the WebsiteSearchTool becomes available, you can install the foundational package with: This command installs the necessary dependencies to ensure that once the tool is fully integrated, users can start using it immediately. Below are examples of how the WebsiteSearchTool could be utilized in different scenarios. Please note, these examples are illustrative and represent planned functionality: By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. The XMLSearchTool is a cutting-edge RAG tool engineered for conducting semantic searches within XML files. Ideal for users needing to parse and extract information from XML content efficiently, this tool supports inputting a search query and an optional XML file path. By specifying an XML path, users can target their search more precisely to the content of that file, thereby obtaining more relevant search outcomes. To start using the XMLSearchTool, you must first install the crewai_tools package. This can be easily done with the following command: Here are two examples demonstrating how to use the XMLSearchTool. The first example shows searching within a specific XML file, while the second example illustrates initiating a search without predefining an XML path, providing flexibility in search scope. By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. This tool is designed to perform semantic searches within a specific Youtube channel's content. Leveraging the RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) methodology, it provides relevant search results, making it invaluable for extracting information or finding specific content without the need to manually sift through videos. It streamlines the search process within Youtube channels, catering to researchers, content creators, and viewers seeking specific information or topics. To utilize the YoutubeChannelSearchTool, the crewai_tools package must be installed. Execute the following command in your shell to install: To begin using the YoutubeChannelSearchTool, follow the example below. This demonstrates initializing the tool with a specific Youtube channel handle and conducting a search within that channel's content. By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
Experimental We are still working on improving tools, so there might be unexpected behavior or changes in the future. This tool is part of the crewai_tools package and is designed to perform semantic searches within Youtube video content, utilizing Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques. It is one of several "Search" tools in the package that leverage RAG for different sources. The YoutubeVideoSearchTool allows for flexibility in searches; users can search across any Youtube video content without specifying a video URL, or they can target their search to a specific Youtube video by providing its URL. To utilize the YoutubeVideoSearchTool, you must first install the crewai_tools package. This package contains the YoutubeVideoSearchTool among other utilities designed to enhance your data analysis and processing tasks. Install the package by executing the following command in your terminal: To integrate the YoutubeVideoSearchTool into your Python projects, follow the example below. This demonstrates how to use the tool both for general Youtube content searches and for targeted searches within a specific video's content. The YoutubeVideoSearchTool accepts the following initialization arguments: By default, the tool uses OpenAI for both embeddings and summarization. To customize the model, you can use a config dictionary as follows:
CrewAI utilizes anonymous telemetry to gather usage statistics with the primary goal of enhancing the library. Our focus is on improving and developing the features, integrations, and tools most utilized by our users. We don't offer a way to disable it now, but we will in the future. It's pivotal to understand that NO data is collected concerning prompts, task descriptions, agents' backstories or goals, usage of tools, API calls, responses, any data processed by the agents, or secrets and environment variables, with the exception of the conditions mentioned. When the share_crew feature is enabled, detailed data including task descriptions, agents' backstories or goals, and other specific attributes are collected to provide deeper insights while respecting user privacy. Users can choose to share their complete telemetry data by enabling the share_crew attribute to True in their crew configurations. Enabling share_crew results in the collection of detailed crew and task execution data, including goal, backstory, context, and output of tasks. This enables a deeper insight into usage patterns while respecting the user's choice to share. We are committed to maintaining the accuracy and transparency of our documentation. Regular reviews and updates are performed to ensure our documentation accurately reflects the latest developments of our codebase and telemetry practices. Users are encouraged to review this section for the most current information on our data collection practices and how they contribute to the improvement of CrewAI.
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the comprehensive guide for creating a new CrewAI pipeline project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI pipeline project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. To learn more about CrewAI pipelines, visit the CrewAI documentation. Before getting started with CrewAI pipelines, make sure that you have installed CrewAI via pip: The same prerequisites for virtual environments and Code IDEs apply as in regular CrewAI projects. To create a new CrewAI pipeline project, you have two options: These commands will create a new project folder with the following structure: To customize your pipeline project, you can: Here's an example of how to define a pipeline in src/<project_name>/pipelines/normal_pipeline.py: The main annotation you'll use for pipelines is @PipelineBase. This annotation is used to decorate your pipeline classes, similar to how @CrewBase is used for crews. To install the dependencies for your project, use Poetry: To run your pipeline project, use the following command: This will initialize your pipeline and begin task execution as defined in your main.py file. Pipelines can be deployed in the same way as regular CrewAI projects. The easiest way is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your pipeline in a few clicks. Remember, when working with pipelines, you're orchestrating multiple crews to work together in a sequence or parallel fashion. This allows for more complex workflows and information processing tasks.
What is an Agent? An agent is an autonomous unit programmed to:

Perform tasks
Make decisions
Communicate with other agents


Think of an agent as a member of a team, with specific skills and a particular job to do. Agents can have different roles like 'Researcher', 'Writer', or 'Customer Support', each contributing to the overall goal of the crew. Agent Interaction Agents can interact with each other using crewAI's built-in delegation and communication mechanisms. This allows for dynamic task management and problem-solving within the crew. To create an agent, you would typically initialize an instance of the Agent class with the desired properties. Here's a conceptual example including all attributes: Prompt templates are used to format the prompt for the agent. You can use to update the system, regular and response templates for the agent. Here's an example of how to set prompt templates: Extend your Third Party Agents like LlamaIndex, Langchain, Autogen or fully custom agents using the the crewai's BaseAgent class. BaseAgent includes attributes and methods required to integrate with your crews to run and delegate tasks to other agents within your own crew. CrewAI is a universal multi agent framework that allows for all agents to work together to automate tasks and solve problems. Agents are the building blocks of the CrewAI framework. By understanding how to define and interact with agents, you can create sophisticated AI systems that leverage the power of collaborative intelligence.
What is a Task? In the crewAI framework, tasks are specific assignments completed by agents. They provide all necessary details for execution, such as a description, the agent responsible, required tools, and more, facilitating a wide range of action complexities. Tasks within crewAI can be collaborative, requiring multiple agents to work together. This is managed through the task properties and orchestrated by the Crew's process, enhancing teamwork and efficiency. Creating a task involves defining its scope, responsible agent, and any additional attributes for flexibility: Task Assignment Directly specify an agent for assignment or let the hierarchical CrewAI's process decide based on roles, availability, etc. Understanding Task Outputs The output of a task in the crewAI framework is encapsulated within the TaskOutput class. This class provides a structured way to access results of a task, including various formats such as raw strings, JSON, and Pydantic models.
By default, the TaskOutput will only include the raw output. A TaskOutput will only include the pydantic or json_dict output if the original Task object was configured with output_pydantic or output_json, respectively. Once a task has been executed, its output can be accessed through the output attribute of the Task object. The TaskOutput class provides various ways to interact with and present this output. Leverage tools from the crewAI Toolkit and LangChain Tools for enhanced task performance and agent interaction. This demonstrates how tasks with specific tools can override an agent's default set for tailored task execution. In crewAI, the output of one task is automatically relayed into the next one, but you can specifically define what tasks' output, including multiple, should be used as context for another task. This is useful when you have a task that depends on the output of another task that is not performed immediately after it. This is done through the context attribute of the task: You can define a task to be executed asynchronously. This means that the crew will not wait for it to be completed to continue with the next task. This is useful for tasks that take a long time to be completed, or that are not crucial for the next tasks to be performed. You can then use the context attribute to define in a future task that it should wait for the output of the asynchronous task to be completed. The callback function is executed after the task is completed, allowing for actions or notifications to be triggered based on the task's outcome. Once a crew finishes running, you can access the output of a specific task by using the output attribute of the task object: Specifying tools in a task allows for dynamic adaptation of agent capabilities, emphasizing CrewAI's flexibility. While creating and executing tasks, certain validation mechanisms are in place to ensure the robustness and reliability of task attributes. These include but are not limited to: These validations help in maintaining the consistency and reliability of task executions within the crewAI framework. You can now specify if a task should create directories when saving its output to a file. This is particularly useful for organizing outputs and ensuring that file paths are correctly structured. Tasks are the driving force behind the actions of agents in crewAI. By properly defining tasks and their outcomes, you set the stage for your AI agents to work effectively, either independently or as a collaborative unit. Equipping tasks with appropriate tools, understanding the execution process, and following robust validation practices are crucial for maximizing CrewAI's potential, ensuring agents are effectively prepared for their assignments and that tasks are executed as intended.
CrewAI tools empower agents with capabilities ranging from web searching and data analysis to collaboration and delegating tasks among coworkers. This documentation outlines how to create, integrate, and leverage these tools within the CrewAI framework, including a new focus on collaboration tools. Definition A tool in CrewAI is a skill or function that agents can utilize to perform various actions. This includes tools from the crewAI Toolkit and LangChain Tools, enabling everything from simple searches to complex interactions and effective teamwork among agents. To enhance your agents' capabilities with crewAI tools, begin by installing our extra tools package: Here's an example demonstrating their use: Here is a list of the available tools and their descriptions: Custom Tool Creation Developers can craft custom tools tailored for their agent’s needs or utilize pre-built options: To create your own crewAI tools you will need to install our extra tools package: Once you do that there are two main ways for one to create a crewAI tool: Caching Tools can optionally implement a cache_function to fine-tune caching behavior. This function determines when to cache results based on specific conditions, offering granular control over caching logic. Tools are pivotal in extending the capabilities of CrewAI agents, enabling them to undertake a broad spectrum of tasks and collaborate effectively. When building solutions with CrewAI, leverage both custom and existing tools to empower your agents and enhance the AI ecosystem. Consider utilizing error handling, caching mechanisms, and the flexibility of tool arguments to optimize your agents' performance and capabilities.
Core Concept In CrewAI, processes orchestrate the execution of tasks by agents, akin to project management in human teams. These processes ensure tasks are distributed and executed efficiently, in alignment with a predefined strategy. Processes enable individual agents to operate as a cohesive unit, streamlining their efforts to achieve common objectives with efficiency and coherence. To assign a process to a crew, specify the process type upon crew creation to set the execution strategy. For a hierarchical process, ensure to define manager_llm or manager_agent for the manager agent. from crewai import Crew
from crewai.process import Process
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI

# Example: Creating a crew with a sequential process
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.sequential
)

# Example: Creating a crew with a hierarchical process
# Ensure to provide a manager_llm or manager_agent
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.hierarchical,
    manager_llm=ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4")
    # or
    # manager_agent=my_manager_agent
)

Note: Ensure my_agents and my_tasks are defined prior to creating a Crew object, and for the hierarchical process, either manager_llm or manager_agent is also required. This method mirrors dynamic team workflows, progressing through tasks in a thoughtful and systematic manner. Task execution follows the predefined order in the task list, with the output of one task serving as context for the next. To customize task context, utilize the context parameter in the Task class to specify outputs that should be used as context for subsequent tasks. Emulates a corporate hierarchy, CrewAI allows specifying a custom manager agent or automatically creates one, requiring the specification of a manager language model (manager_llm). This agent oversees task execution, including planning, delegation, and validation. Tasks are not pre-assigned; the manager allocates tasks to agents based on their capabilities, reviews outputs, and assesses task completion. The Process class is implemented as an enumeration (Enum), ensuring type safety and restricting process values to the defined types (sequential, hierarchical). The consensual process is planned for future inclusion, emphasizing our commitment to continuous development and innovation. The structured collaboration facilitated by processes within CrewAI is crucial for enabling systematic teamwork among agents. This documentation has been updated to reflect the latest features, enhancements, and the planned integration of the Consensual Process, ensuring users have access to the most current and comprehensive information.
A crew in crewAI represents a collaborative group of agents working together to achieve a set of tasks. Each crew defines the strategy for task execution, agent collaboration, and the overall workflow. Crew Max RPM The max_rpm attribute sets the maximum number of requests per minute the crew can perform to avoid rate limits and will override individual agents' max_rpm settings if you set it. When assembling a crew, you combine agents with complementary roles and tools, assign tasks, and select a process that dictates their execution order and interaction. Understanding Crew Outputs The output of a crew in the crewAI framework is encapsulated within the CrewOutput class.
This class provides a structured way to access results of the crew's execution, including various formats such as raw strings, JSON, and Pydantic models.
The CrewOutput includes the results from the final task output, token usage, and individual task outputs. Once a crew has been executed, its output can be accessed through the output attribute of the Crew object. The CrewOutput class provides various ways to interact with and present this output. Crews can utilize memory (short-term, long-term, and entity memory) to enhance their execution and learning over time. This feature allows crews to store and recall execution memories, aiding in decision-making and task execution strategies. Caches can be employed to store the results of tools' execution, making the process more efficient by reducing the need to re-execute identical tasks. After the crew execution, you can access the usage_metrics attribute to view the language model (LLM) usage metrics for all tasks executed by the crew. This provides insights into operational efficiency and areas for improvement. Once your crew is assembled, initiate the workflow with the kickoff() method. This starts the execution process according to the defined process flow. Once your crew is assembled, initiate the workflow with the appropriate kickoff method. CrewAI provides several methods for better control over the kickoff process: kickoff(), kickoff_for_each(), kickoff_async(), and kickoff_for_each_async(). These methods provide flexibility in how you manage and execute tasks within your crew, allowing for both synchronous and asynchronous workflows tailored to your needs. You can now replay from a specific task using our CLI command replay. The replay feature in CrewAI allows you to replay from a specific task using the command-line interface (CLI). By running the command crewai replay -t <task_id>, you can specify the task_id for the replay process. Kickoffs will now save the latest kickoffs returned task outputs locally for you to be able to replay from. To use the replay feature, follow these steps: To view the latest kickoff task IDs, use: Then, to replay from a specific task, use: These commands let you replay from your latest kickoff tasks, still retaining context from previously executed tasks.
A pipeline in crewAI represents a structured workflow that allows for the sequential or parallel execution of multiple crews. It provides a way to organize complex processes involving multiple stages, where the output of one stage can serve as input for subsequent stages. Understanding the following terms is crucial for working effectively with pipelines: Example pipeline structure: This represents a pipeline with three stages: Each input creates its own run, flowing through all stages of the pipeline. Multiple runs can be processed concurrently, each following the defined pipeline structure. When creating a pipeline, you define a series of stages, each consisting of either a single crew or a list of crews for parallel execution. The pipeline ensures that each stage is executed in order, with the output of one stage feeding into the next. Understanding Pipeline Outputs The output of a pipeline in the crewAI framework is encapsulated within the PipelineKickoffResult class. This class provides a structured way to access the results of the pipeline's execution, including various formats such as raw strings, JSON, and Pydantic models. Once a pipeline has been executed, its output can be accessed through the PipelineOutput object returned by the process_runs method. The PipelineOutput class provides access to individual PipelineRunResult objects, each representing a single run through the pipeline. This example demonstrates how to access and work with the pipeline output, including individual run results and their associated data. Pipelines are particularly useful for complex workflows that involve multiple stages of processing, analysis, or content generation. They allow you to: You can define parallel execution within a stage by providing a list of crews, creating multiple branches: Routers are a powerful feature in crewAI pipelines that allow for dynamic decision-making and branching within your workflow. They enable you to direct the flow of execution based on specific conditions or criteria, making your pipelines more flexible and adaptive. A router in crewAI is a special component that can be included as a stage in your pipeline. It evaluates the input data and determines which path the execution should take next. This allows for conditional branching in your pipeline, where different crews or sub-pipelines can be executed based on the router's decision. Here's an example of how to create a router: In this example, the router decides between an urgent pipeline and a normal pipeline based on the urgency score of the email. If the urgency score is greater than 7, it routes to the urgent pipeline; otherwise, it uses the normal pipeline. If the input doesn't include an urgency score, it defaults to just the classification crew. The Pipeline class includes validation mechanisms to ensure the robustness of the pipeline structure:
The training feature in CrewAI allows you to train your AI agents using the command-line interface (CLI). By running the command crewai train -n <n_iterations>, you can specify the number of iterations for the training process. During training, CrewAI utilizes techniques to optimize the performance of your agents along with human feedback. This helps the agents improve their understanding, decision-making, and problem-solving abilities. To use the training feature, follow these steps: Replace <n_iterations> with the desired number of training iterations and <filename> with the appropriate filename ending with .pkl. To train your crew programmatically, use the following steps: It is important to note that the training process may take some time, depending on the complexity of your agents and will also require your feedback on each iteration. Once the training is complete, your agents will be equipped with enhanced capabilities and knowledge, ready to tackle complex tasks and provide more consistent and valuable insights. Remember to regularly update and retrain your agents to ensure they stay up-to-date with the latest information and advancements in the field. Happy training with CrewAI!
Enhancing Agent Intelligence The crewAI framework introduces a sophisticated memory system designed to significantly enhance the capabilities of AI agents. This system comprises short-term memory, long-term memory, entity memory, and contextual memory, each serving a unique purpose in aiding agents to remember, reason, and learn from past interactions. Contextual Awareness: With short-term and contextual memory, agents gain the ability to maintain context over a conversation or task sequence, leading to more coherent and relevant responses. Experience Accumulation: Long-term memory allows agents to accumulate experiences, learning from past actions to improve future decision-making and problem-solving. Entity Understanding: By maintaining entity memory, agents can recognize and remember key entities, enhancing their ability to process and interact with complex information. When configuring a crew, you can enable and customize each memory component to suit the crew's objectives and the nature of tasks it will perform.
By default, the memory system is disabled, and you can ensure it is active by setting memory=True in the crew configuration. The memory will use OpenAI Embeddings by default, but you can change it by setting embedder to a different model. The 'embedder' only applies to Short-Term Memory which uses Chroma for RAG using EmbedChain package.
The Long-Term Memory uses SQLLite3 to store task results.  Currently, there is no way to override these storage implementations.
The data storage files are saved into a platform specific location found using the appdirs package
and the name of the project which can be overridden using the CREWAI_STORAGE_DIR environment variable. Default: False -s, --short Default: False -e, --entities Default: False -k, --kickoff-outputs Default: False -a, --all Integrating crewAI's memory system into your projects is straightforward. By leveraging the provided memory components and configurations, you can quickly empower your agents with the ability to remember, reason, and learn from their interactions, unlocking new levels of intelligence and capability.
The planning feature in CrewAI allows you to add planning capability to your crew. When enabled, before each Crew iteration, all Crew information is sent to an AgentPlanner that will plan the tasks step by step, and this plan will be added to each task description. Getting started with the planning feature is very easy, the only step required is to add planning=True to your Crew: From this point on, your crew will have planning enabled, and the tasks will be planned before each iteration. Now you can define the LLM that will be used to plan the tasks. You can use any ChatOpenAI LLM model available. When running the base case example, you will see something like the following output, which represents the output of the AgentPlanner responsible for creating the step-by-step logic to add to the Agents tasks.
Testing is a crucial part of the development process, and it is essential to ensure that your crew is performing as expected. With crewAI, you can easily test your crew and evaluate its performance using the built-in testing capabilities. We added the CLI command crewai test to make it easy to test your crew. This command will run your crew for a specified number of iterations and provide detailed performance metrics. The parameters are n_iterations and model which are optional and default to 2 and gpt-4o-mini respectively. For now, the only provider available is OpenAI. If you want to run more iterations or use a different model, you can specify the parameters like this: When you run the crewai test command, the crew will be executed for the specified number of iterations, and the performance metrics will be displayed at the end of the run. A table of scores at the end will show the performance of the crew in terms of the following metrics: The example above shows the test results for two runs of the crew with two tasks, with the average total score for each task and the crew as a whole.
This guide provides detailed instructions on creating custom tools for the crewAI framework and how to efficiently manage and utilize these tools, incorporating the latest functionalities such as tool delegation, error handling, and dynamic tool calling. It also highlights the importance of collaboration tools, enabling agents to perform a wide range of actions. Before creating your own tools, ensure you have the crewAI extra tools package installed: To create a personalized tool, inherit from BaseTool and define the necessary attributes and the _run method. Alternatively, you can use the tool decorator @tool. This approach allows you to define the tool's attributes and functionality directly within a function, offering a concise and efficient way to create specialized tools tailored to your needs. To optimize tool performance with caching, define custom caching strategies using the cache_function attribute. By adhering to these guidelines and incorporating new functionalities and collaboration tools into your tool creation and management processes, you can leverage the full capabilities of the crewAI framework, enhancing both the development experience and the efficiency of your AI agents.
CrewAI offers a flexible framework for executing tasks in a structured manner, supporting both sequential and hierarchical processes. This guide outlines how to effectively implement these processes to ensure efficient task execution and project completion. The sequential process ensures tasks are executed one after the other, following a linear progression. This approach is ideal for projects requiring tasks to be completed in a specific order. To use the sequential process, assemble your crew and define tasks in the order they need to be executed. In sequential processes, if an agent has allow_delegation set to True, they can delegate tasks to other agents in the crew. This feature is automatically set up when there are multiple agents in the crew. Tasks can be executed asynchronously, allowing for parallel processing when appropriate. To create an asynchronous task, set async_execution=True when defining the task. CrewAI supports both memory and caching features:
- Memory: Enable by setting memory=True when creating the Crew. This allows agents to retain information across tasks.
- Caching: By default, caching is enabled. Set cache=False to disable it. You can set callbacks at both the task and step level:
- task_callback: Executed after each task completion.
- step_callback: Executed after each step in an agent's execution. CrewAI tracks token usage across all tasks and agents. You can access these metrics after execution.
The hierarchical process in CrewAI introduces a structured approach to task management, simulating traditional organizational hierarchies for efficient task delegation and execution. This systematic workflow enhances project outcomes by ensuring tasks are handled with optimal efficiency and accuracy. Complexity and Efficiency The hierarchical process is designed to leverage advanced models like GPT-4, optimizing token usage while handling complex tasks with greater efficiency. By default, tasks in CrewAI are managed through a sequential process. However, adopting a hierarchical approach allows for a clear hierarchy in task management, where a 'manager' agent coordinates the workflow, delegates tasks, and validates outcomes for streamlined and effective execution. This manager agent can now be either automatically created by CrewAI or explicitly set by the user. To utilize the hierarchical process, it's essential to explicitly set the process attribute to Process.hierarchical, as the default behavior is Process.sequential. Define a crew with a designated manager and establish a clear chain of command. Tools and Agent Assignment Assign tools at the agent level to facilitate task delegation and execution by the designated agents under the manager's guidance. Tools can also be specified at the task level for precise control over tool availability during task execution. Manager LLM Requirement Configuring the manager_llm parameter is crucial for the hierarchical process. The system requires a manager LLM to be set up for proper function, ensuring tailored decision-making. Adopting the hierarchical process in CrewAI, with the correct configurations and understanding of the system's capabilities, facilitates an organized and efficient approach to project management. Utilize the advanced features and customizations to tailor the workflow to your specific needs, ensuring optimal task execution and project success.
Default LLM By default, CrewAI uses OpenAI's GPT-4o model (specifically, the model specified by the OPENAI_MODEL_NAME environment variable, defaulting to "gpt-4o") for language processing. You can configure your agents to use a different model or API as described in this guide.
By default, CrewAI uses OpenAI's GPT-4 model (specifically, the model specified by the OPENAI_MODEL_NAME environment variable, defaulting to "gpt-4") for language processing. You can configure your agents to use a different model or API as described in this guide. CrewAI provides extensive versatility in integrating with various Language Models (LLMs), including local options through Ollama such as Llama and Mixtral to cloud-based solutions like Azure. Its compatibility extends to all LangChain LLM components, offering a wide range of integration possibilities for customized AI applications. The platform supports connections to an array of Generative AI models, including: This broad spectrum of LLM options enables users to select the most suitable model for their specific needs, whether prioritizing local deployment, specialized capabilities, or cloud-based scalability. The default LLM is provided through the langchain openai package, which is installed by default when you install CrewAI. You can change this default LLM to a different model or API by setting the OPENAI_MODEL_NAME environment variable. This straightforward process allows you to harness the power of different OpenAI models, enhancing the flexibility and capabilities of your CrewAI implementation.
# Required
os.environ["OPENAI_MODEL_NAME"]="gpt-4-0125-preview"

# Agent will automatically use the model defined in the environment variable
example_agent = Agent(
  role='Local Expert',
  goal='Provide insights about the city',
  backstory="A knowledgeable local guide.",
  verbose=True
)
 Ollama is preferred for local LLM integration, offering customization and privacy benefits. To integrate Ollama with CrewAI, you will need the langchain-ollama package. You can then set the following environment variables to connect to your Ollama instance running locally on port 11434. There are a couple of different ways you can use HuggingFace to host your LLM. Switch between APIs and models seamlessly using environment variables, supporting platforms like FastChat, LM Studio, Groq, and Mistral AI. Launch LM Studio and go to the Server tab. Then select a model from the dropdown menu and wait for it to load. Once it's loaded, click the green Start Server button and use the URL, port, and API key that's shown (you can modify them). Below is an example of the default settings as of LM Studio 0.2.19:
os.environ[OPENAI_API_BASE]="http://localhost:1234/v1"
os.environ[OPENAI_API_KEY]="lm-studio"
 from langchain_community.chat_models.solar import SolarChat

os.environ[SOLAR_API_BASE]="https://api.upstage.ai/v1/solar"
os.environ[SOLAR_API_KEY]="your-solar-api-key"
 For Azure OpenAI API integration, set the following environment variables:
os.environ[AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT] = "Your deployment"
os.environ["OPENAI_API_VERSION"] = "2023-12-01-preview"
os.environ["AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT"] = "Your Endpoint"
os.environ["AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "<Your API Key>"
 Integrating CrewAI with different LLMs expands the framework's versatility, allowing for customized, efficient AI solutions across various domains and platforms.
Crafting an efficient CrewAI team hinges on the ability to dynamically tailor your AI agents to meet the unique requirements of any project. This section covers the foundational attributes you can customize. Beyond the basic attributes, CrewAI allows for deeper customization to enhance an agent's behavior and capabilities significantly. Agents can be customized with specific language models (llm) and function-calling language models (function_calling_llm), offering advanced control over their processing and decision-making abilities. It's important to note that setting the function_calling_llm allows for overriding the default crew function-calling language model, providing a greater degree of customization. Adjusting an agent's performance and monitoring its operations are crucial for efficient task execution. The max_iter attribute allows users to define the maximum number of iterations an agent can perform for a single task, preventing infinite loops or excessively long executions. The default value is set to 25, providing a balance between thoroughness and efficiency. Once the agent approaches this number, it will try its best to give a good answer. Agents are customized by defining their attributes and tools during initialization. Tools are critical for an agent's functionality, enabling them to perform specialized tasks. The tools attribute should be an array of tools the agent can utilize, and it's initialized as an empty list by default. Tools can be added or modified post-agent initialization to adapt to new requirements. Controlling an agent's ability to delegate tasks or ask questions is vital for tailoring its autonomy and collaborative dynamics within the CrewAI framework. By default, the allow_delegation attribute is set to True, enabling agents to seek assistance or delegate tasks as needed. This default behavior promotes collaborative problem-solving and efficiency within the CrewAI ecosystem. If needed, delegation can be disabled to suit specific operational requirements. Customizing agents in CrewAI by setting their roles, goals, backstories, and tools, alongside advanced options like language model customization, memory, performance settings, and delegation preferences, equips a nuanced and capable AI team ready for complex challenges.
crewAI Agents now have the powerful ability to write and execute code, significantly enhancing their problem-solving capabilities. This feature is particularly useful for tasks that require computational or programmatic solutions. To enable code execution for an agent, set the allow_code_execution parameter to True when creating the agent. Here's an example: Note: The allow_code_execution parameter defaults to False. Model Selection: It is strongly recommended to use more capable models like Claude 3.5 Sonnet and GPT-4 when enabling code execution. These models have a better understanding of programming concepts and are more likely to generate correct and efficient code. Error Handling: The code execution feature includes error handling. If executed code raises an exception, the agent will receive the error message and can attempt to correct the code or provide alternative solutions. The max_retry_limit parameter, which defaults to 2, controls the maximum number of retries for a task. Dependencies: To use the code execution feature, you need to install the crewai_tools package. If not installed, the agent will log an info message: "Coding tools not available. Install crewai_tools." When an agent with code execution enabled encounters a task requiring programming: Here's a detailed example of creating an agent with code execution capabilities and using it in a task: In this example, the coding_agent can write and execute Python code to perform data analysis tasks.
In CrewAI, you can force the output of a tool as the result of an agent's task. This feature is useful when you want to ensure that the tool output is captured and returned as the task result, and avoid the agent modifying the output during the task execution. To force the tool output as the result of an agent's task, you can set the result_as_answer parameter to True when creating the agent. This parameter ensures that the tool output is captured and returned as the task result, without any modifications by the agent. Here's an example of how to force the tool output as the result of an agent's task:
Human input is critical in several agent execution scenarios, allowing agents to request additional information or clarification when necessary. This feature is especially useful in complex decision-making processes or when agents require more details to complete a task effectively. To integrate human input into agent execution, set the human_input flag in the task definition. When enabled, the agent prompts the user for input before delivering its final answer. This input can provide extra context, clarify ambiguities, or validate the agent's output.
CrewAI provides the ability to kickoff a crew asynchronously, allowing you to start the crew execution in a non-blocking manner. This feature is particularly useful when you want to run multiple crews concurrently or when you need to perform other tasks while the crew is executing. To kickoff a crew asynchronously, use the kickoff_async() method. This method initiates the crew execution in a separate thread, allowing the main thread to continue executing other tasks. Here's an example of how to kickoff a crew asynchronously:
CrewAI provides the ability to kickoff a crew for each item in a list, allowing you to execute the crew for each item in the list. This feature is particularly useful when you need to perform the same set of tasks for multiple items. To kickoff a crew for each item in a list, use the kickoff_for_each() method. This method executes the crew for each item in the list, allowing you to process multiple items efficiently. Here's an example of how to kickoff a crew for each item in a list:
CrewAI provides the ability to replay from a task specified from the latest crew kickoff. This feature is particularly useful when you've finished a kickoff and may want to retry certain tasks or don't need to refetch data over and your agents already have the context saved from the kickoff execution so you just need to replay the tasks you want to. You must run crew.kickoff() before you can replay a task. Currently, only the latest kickoff is supported, so if you use kickoff_for_each, it will only allow you to replay from the most recent crew run. Here's an example of how to replay from a task: To use the replay feature, follow these steps: Once you have your task_id to replay from use:
crewai replay -t <task_id>
 To replay from a task programmatically, use the following steps:
Conditional Tasks in crewAI allow for dynamic workflow adaptation based on the outcomes of previous tasks. This powerful feature enables crews to make decisions and execute tasks selectively, enhancing the flexibility and efficiency of your AI-driven processes.
Observability is a key aspect of developing and deploying conversational AI agents. It allows developers to understand how their agents are performing, how their agents are interacting with users, and how their agents use external tools and APIs. AgentOps is a product independent of CrewAI that provides a comprehensive observability solution for agents. AgentOps provides session replays, metrics, and monitoring for agents. At a high level, AgentOps gives you the ability to monitor cost, token usage, latency, agent failures, session-wide statistics, and more. For more info, check out the AgentOps Repo. AgentOps provides monitoring for agents in development and production. It provides a dashboard for tracking agent performance, session replays, and custom reporting. Additionally, AgentOps provides session drilldowns for viewing Crew agent interactions, LLM calls, and tool usage in real-time. This feature is useful for debugging and understanding how agents interact with users as well as other agents. 

 Create an API Key:
   Create a user API key here: Create API Key Configure Your Environment:
   Add your API key to your environment variables Before using Crew in your script, include these lines: This will initiate an AgentOps session as well as automatically track Crew agents. For further info on how to outfit more complex agentic systems, check out the AgentOps documentation or join the Discord. To get started, create an AgentOps account. For feature requests or bug reports, please reach out to the AgentOps team on the AgentOps Repo. 🐦 Twitter
  •  
📢 Discord
  •  
🖇️ AgentOps Dashboard
  •  
📙 Documentation
Langtrace is an open-source, external tool that helps you set up observability and evaluations for Large Language Models (LLMs), LLM frameworks, and Vector Databases. While not built directly into CrewAI, Langtrace can be used alongside CrewAI to gain deep visibility into the cost, latency, and performance of your CrewAI Agents. This integration allows you to log hyperparameters, monitor performance regressions, and establish a process for continuous improvement of your Agents. To integrate Langtrace with your CrewAI project, follow these steps: Create your CrewAI agents and tasks as usual. Use Langtrace's tracking functions to monitor your CrewAI operations. For example: Example:
     with langtrace.trace("Agent Interaction"):
    agent_response = agent.execute(task)
 Trace Graph for Execution Steps Useful for identifying bottlenecks in your agent workflows. Dataset Curation with Manual Annotation Example:
     langtrace.log_dataset_item(task_input, agent_output, {"task_type": "research"})
 Prompt Versioning and Management Useful for A/B testing and optimizing agent performance. Prompt Playground with Model Comparisons Test and compare different prompts and models for your CrewAI agents before deployment. Testing and Evaluations CrewAI has introduced several new features that can be monitored using Langtrace: Code Execution: Monitor the performance and output of code executed by agents.
   with langtrace.trace("Agent Code Execution"):
    code_output = agent.execute_code(code_snippet)
 Third-party Agent Integration: Track interactions with LlamaIndex, LangChain, and Autogen agents.
 Cutting-edge framework for orchestrating role-playing, autonomous AI agents. By fostering collaborative intelligence, CrewAI empowers agents to work together seamlessly, tackling complex tasks.
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to crewAI! This guide will walk you through the installation process for crewAI and its dependencies. crewAI is a flexible and powerful AI framework that enables you to create and manage AI agents, tools, and tasks efficiently. Let's get started! To install crewAI, you need to have Python >=3.10 and <=3.13 installed on your system:
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
Welcome to the ultimate guide for starting a new CrewAI project. This document will walk you through the steps to create, customize, and run your CrewAI project, ensuring you have everything you need to get started. Before we start, there are a couple of things to note: Before getting started with CrewAI, make sure that you have installed it via pip: It is highly recommended that you use virtual environments to ensure that your CrewAI project is isolated from other projects and dependencies. Virtual environments provide a clean, separate workspace for each project, preventing conflicts between different versions of packages and libraries. This isolation is crucial for maintaining consistency and reproducibility in your development process. You have multiple options for setting up virtual environments depending on your operating system and Python version: To set up virtual environments with venv, refer to the official Python documentation. To set up virtual environments with Conda, refer to the official Conda documentation. Most users of CrewAI use a Code Editor / Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for building their Crews. You can use any code IDE of your choice. See below for some popular options for Code Editors / Integrated Development Environments (IDE): Pick one that suits your style and needs. In this example, we will be using Venv as our virtual environment manager. To set up a virtual environment, run the following CLI command:
To create a new CrewAI project, run the following CLI command: This command will create a new project folder with the following structure: You can now start developing your project by editing the files in the src/my_project folder. The main.py file is the entry point of your project, and the crew.py file is where you define your agents and tasks. To customize your project, you can:
- Modify src/my_project/config/agents.yaml to define your agents.
- Modify src/my_project/config/tasks.yaml to define your tasks.
- Modify src/my_project/crew.py to add your own logic, tools, and specific arguments.
- Modify src/my_project/main.py to add custom inputs for your agents and tasks.
- Add your environment variables into the .env file. Your defined functions with the same name will be used. For example, you can reference the agent for specific tasks from task.yaml file. Ensure your annotated agent and function name is the same otherwise your task won't recognize the reference properly. agent.yaml
email_summarizer:
    role: >
      Email Summarizer
    goal: >
      Summarize emails into a concise and clear summary
    backstory: >
      You will create a 5 bullet point summary of the report
    llm: mixtal_llm
 task.yaml
email_summarizer_task:
    description: >
      Summarize the email into a 5 bullet point summary
    expected_output: >
      A 5 bullet point summary of the email
    agent: email_summarizer
    context:
      - reporting_task
      - research_task
 Use the annotations to properly reference the agent and task in the crew.py file. crew.py
# ...
    @llm
    def mixtal_llm(self):
        return ChatGroq(temperature=0, model_name="mixtral-8x7b-32768")

    @agent
    def email_summarizer(self) -> Agent:
        return Agent(
            config=self.agents_config["email_summarizer"],
        )
    ## ...other tasks defined
    @task
    def email_summarizer_task(self) -> Task:
        return Task(
            config=self.tasks_config["email_summarizer_task"],
        )
# ...
 To install the dependencies for your project, you can use Poetry. First, navigate to your project directory: This will install the dependencies specified in the pyproject.toml file. Any variable interpolated in your agents.yaml and tasks.yaml files like {variable} will be replaced by the value of the variable in the main.py file. To run your project, use the following command: $ crewai run

This will initialize your crew of AI agents and begin task execution as defined in your configuration in the main.py file. CrewAI now includes a replay feature that allows you to list the tasks from the last run and replay from a specific one. To use this feature, run: Replace <task_id> with the ID of the task you want to replay. If you need to reset the memory of your crew before running it again, you can do so by calling the reset memory feature: This will clear the crew's memory, allowing for a fresh start. The easiest way to deploy your crew is through CrewAI+, where you can deploy your crew in a few clicks.
