Chroma Chroma is the AI-native open-source vector database. Chroma makes it easy to build LLM apps by making knowledge, facts, and skills pluggable for LLMs. New to Chroma? 🔑 Getting Started.      Chroma gives you the tools to: Chroma prioritizes: Chroma runs as a server and provides 1st party Python and JavaScript/TypeScript client SDKs. Check out the Colab demo. (yes, it can run in a Jupyter notebook 😄) Chroma is licensed under Apache 2.0 In Python, Chroma can run in a python script or as a server. Command Line In JavaScript, use the Chroma JS/TS Client to connect to a Chroma server. Command Line Continue with the full getting started guide.  We welcome contributions for other languages!
Chroma Chroma is the AI-native open-source vector database. Chroma makes it easy to build LLM apps by making knowledge, facts, and skills pluggable for LLMs. New to Chroma? 🔑 Getting Started.      Chroma gives you the tools to: Chroma prioritizes: Chroma runs as a server and provides 1st party Python and JavaScript/TypeScript client SDKs. Check out the Colab demo. (yes, it can run in a Jupyter notebook 😄) Chroma is licensed under Apache 2.0 In Python, Chroma can run in a python script or as a server. Command Line In JavaScript, use the Chroma JS/TS Client to connect to a Chroma server. Command Line Continue with the full getting started guide.  We welcome contributions for other languages!
Chroma Chroma is an AI-native open-source vector database. It comes with everything you need to get started built in, and runs on your machine. A hosted version is coming soon! Command Line python Collections are where you'll store your embeddings, documents, and any additional metadata. You can create a collection with a name: python Chroma will store your text and handle embedding and indexing automatically. You can also customize the embedding model. python You can query the collection with a list of query texts, and Chroma will return the n most similar results. It's that easy! python From the above query - you can see that our query about hawaii is the semantically most similar to the document about pineapple. This, intuitively, makes sense! javascript For example - what if we tried querying with "This is a document about florida"? python
Chroma python You can configure Chroma to save and load the database from your local machine. Data will be persisted automatically and loaded on start (if it exists). python The path is where Chroma will store its database files on disk, and load them on start. The client object has a few useful convenience methods. python Chroma can also be configured to run in client/server mode. In this mode, the Chroma client connects to a Chroma server running in a separate process. To start the Chroma server, run the following command: Command Line Then use the Chroma HTTP client to connect to the server: python That's it! Chroma's API will run in client-server mode with just this change. Chroma also provides an async HTTP client. The behaviors and method signatures are identical to the synchronous client, but all methods that would block are now async. To use it, call AsyncHttpClient instead: python If you are running Chroma in client-server mode, you may not need the full Chroma library. Instead, you can use the lightweight client-only library. In this case, you can install the chromadb-client package. This package is a lightweight HTTP client for the server with a minimal dependency footprint. python python Note that the chromadb-client package is a subset of the full Chroma library and does not include all the dependencies. If you want to use the full Chroma library, you can install the chromadb package instead. Most importantly, there is no default embedding function. If you add() documents without embeddings, you must have manually specified an embedding function and installed the dependencies for it. Chroma lets you manage collections of embeddings, using the collection primitive. Chroma uses collection names in the url, so there are a few restrictions on naming them: Chroma collections are created with a name and an optional embedding function. If you supply an embedding function, you must supply it every time you get the collection. python If you later wish to get_collection, you MUST do so with the embedding function you supplied while creating the collection The embedding function takes text as input, and performs tokenization and embedding. If no embedding function is supplied, Chroma will use sentence transformer as a default. You can learn more about 🧬 embedding functions, and how to create your own. Existing collections can be retrieved by name with .get_collection, and deleted with .delete_collection. You can also use .get_or_create_collection to get a collection if it exists, or create it if it doesn't. python Collections have a few useful convenience methods. python create_collection also takes an optional metadata argument which can be used to customize the distance method of the embedding space by setting the value of hnsw:space. python Valid options for hnsw:space are "l2", "ip, "or "cosine". The default is "l2" which is the squared L2 norm. Add data to Chroma with .add. Raw documents: python If Chroma is passed a list of documents, it will automatically tokenize and embed them with the collection's embedding function (the default will be used if none was supplied at collection creation). Chroma will also store the documents themselves. If the documents are too large to embed using the chosen embedding function, an exception will be raised. Each document must have a unique associated id. Trying to .add the same ID twice will result in only the initial value being stored. An optional list of metadata dictionaries can be supplied for each document, to store additional information and enable filtering. Alternatively, you can supply a list of document-associated embeddings directly, and Chroma will store the associated documents without embedding them itself. python If the supplied embeddings are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised. You can also store documents elsewhere, and just supply a list of embeddings and metadata to Chroma. You can use the ids to associate the embeddings with your documents stored elsewhere. python Chroma collections can be queried in a variety of ways, using the .query method. You can query by a set of query_embeddings. python The query will return the n_results closest matches to each query_embedding, in order. An optional where filter dictionary can be supplied to filter by the metadata associated with each document. Additionally, an optional where_document filter dictionary can be supplied to filter by contents of the document. If the supplied query_embeddings are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised. You can also query by a set of query_texts. Chroma will first embed each query_text with the collection's embedding function, and then perform the query with the generated embedding. python You can also retrieve items from a collection by id using .get. python .get also supports the where and where_document filters. If no ids are supplied, it will return all items in the collection that match the where and where_document filters. When using get or query you can use the include parameter to specify which data you want returned - any of embeddings, documents, metadatas, and for query, distances. By default, Chroma will return the documents, metadatas and in the case of query, the distances of the results. embeddings are excluded by default for performance and the ids are always returned. You can specify which of these you want returned by passing an array of included field names to the includes parameter of the query or get method. javascript Chroma supports filtering queries by metadata and document contents. The where filter is used to filter by metadata, and the where_document filter is used to filter by document contents. In order to filter on metadata, you must supply a where filter dictionary to the query. The dictionary must have the following structure: python Filtering metadata supports the following operators: Using the $eq operator is equivalent to using the where filter. python Where filters only search embeddings where the key exists. If you search collection.get(where={"version": {"$ne": 1}}). Metadata that does not have the key version will not be returned. In order to filter on document contents, you must supply a where_document filter dictionary to the query. We support two filtering keys: $contains and $not_contains. The dictionary must have the following structure: python python You can also use the logical operators $and and $or to combine multiple filters. An $and operator will return results that match all of the filters in the list. python An $or operator will return results that match any of the filters in the list. python The following inclusion operators are supported: An $in operator will return results where the metadata attribute is part of a provided list: json An $nin operator will return results where the metadata attribute is not part of a provided list: json For additional examples and a demo how to use the inclusion operators, please see provided notebook here Any property of items in a collection can be updated using .update. python If an id is not found in the collection, an error will be logged and the update will be ignored. If documents are supplied without corresponding embeddings, the embeddings will be recomputed with the collection's embedding function. If the supplied embeddings are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised. Chroma also supports an upsert operation, which updates existing items, or adds them if they don't yet exist. python If an id is not present in the collection, the corresponding items will be created as per add. Items with existing ids will be updated as per update. Chroma supports deleting items from a collection by id using .delete. The embeddings, documents, and metadata associated with each item will be deleted. ⚠️ Naturally, this is a destructive operation, and cannot be undone. python .delete also supports the where filter. If no ids are supplied, it will delete all items in the collection that match the where filter.
Chroma Embeddings are the A.I-native way to represent any kind of data, making them the perfect fit for working with all kinds of A.I-powered tools and algorithms. They can represent text, images, and soon audio and video. There are many options for creating embeddings, whether locally using an installed library, or by calling an API. Chroma provides lightweight wrappers around popular embedding providers, making it easy to use them in your apps. You can set an embedding function when you create a Chroma collection, which will be used automatically, or you can call them directly yourself. Chroma maintains integrations with many popular tools. These tools can be used to define the business logic of an AI-native application, curate data, fine-tune embedding spaces and more. We welcome pull requests to add new Integrations to the community.
Chroma Chroma single-node is easy to deploy to a variety of cloud providers. Please use these guides to get started. Running a server in production requires a few additional steps to ensure the server is secure and reliable.
Chroma Chroma contains a telemetry feature that collects anonymous usage information. We use this information to help us understand how Chroma is used, to help us prioritize work on new features and bug fixes, and to help us improve Chroma’s performance and stability. If you prefer to opt out of telemetry, you can do this in two ways. Set anonymized_telemetry to False in your client's settings: python Set ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY to False in your shell or server environment. If you are running Chroma on your local computer with docker-compose you can set this value in an .env file placed in the same directory as the docker-compose.yml file: plaintext We will only track usage details that help us make product decisions, specifically: We do not collect personally-identifiable or sensitive information, such as: usernames, hostnames, file names, environment variables, or hostnames of systems being tested. To view the list of events we track, you may reference the code We use Posthog to store and visualize telemetry data. Posthog is an open source platform for product analytics. Learn more about Posthog on posthog.com or github.com/posthog
Chroma May 20, 2024 The goal of this doc is to align core and community efforts for the project and to share what's in store for this year! Sections Features like: Next Milestone: ☁️ Launch Hosted Chroma Areas we will invest in Not an exhaustive list, but these are some of the core team’s biggest priorities over the coming few months. Use caution when contributing in these areas and please check-in with the core team first. This is where you have a lot more free reign to contribute (without having to sync with us first)! If you're unsure about your contribution idea, feel free to chat with us (@chroma) in the #general channel in our Discord! We'd love to support you however we can. We can always use more integrations with the rest of the AI ecosystem. Please let us know if you're working on one and need help! Other great starting points for Chroma (please send PRs for more here): For those integrations we do have, like LangChain and LlamaIndex, we do always want more tutorials, demos, workshops, videos, and podcasts (we've done some pods on our blog). It doesn’t make sense for developers to embed the same information over and over again with the same embedding model. We'd like suggestions for: datasets for people to stress test Chroma in a variety of scenarios. Chroma does ship with Sentence Transformers by default for embeddings, but we are otherwise unopinionated about what embeddings you use. Having a library of information that has been embedded with many models, alongside example query sets would make it much easier for empirical work to be done on the effectiveness of various models across different domains. If you have a research background, please consider adding to our ExperimentalAPIs. For example: We will be happy to work with people maintaining additional client SDKs as part of the community. Specifically: You can find the REST OpenAPI spec at localhost:8000/openapi.json when the backend is running. Please reach out and talk to us before you get too far in your projects so that we can offer technical guidance/align on roadmap.
Chroma We welcome all contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas. Here are some helpful links to get you started with contributing to Chroma In order to submit a change to Chroma please submit a Pull Request against Chroma or the documentation. The pull request will be reviewed by the Chroma team and if approved will be merged into the repository. We will do our best to review pull requests in a timely manner but please be patient as we are a small team. We will work to integrate your prpoosed changes as quickly as possible if they align with the goals of the project. We ask that you label your pull request with a title prefix that indicates the type of change you are proposing. The following prefixes are used: plaintext Chroma Improvement Proposals or CIPs (pronounced "Chips") are the way to propose new features or large changes to Chroma. If you plan to make a large change to Chroma please submit a CIP first so that the core Chroma team as well as the community can discuss the proposed change and provide feedback. A CIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for why it is needed. The CIP should be submitted as a pull request to the CIPs folder. The CIP will be reviewed by the Chroma team and if approved will be merged into the repository. To learn more about writing a CIP you can read the guide. CIPs are not required for small changes such as bug fixes or documentation updates. A CIP starts in the "Proposed" state, then moves to "Under Review" once the Chroma team has reviewed it and is considering it for implementation. Once the CIP is approved it will move to the "Accepted" state and the implementation can begin. Once the implementation is complete the CIP will move to the "Implemented" state. If the CIP is not approved it will move to the "Rejected" state. If the CIP is withdrawn by the author it will move to the "Withdrawn" state. For less fleshed out ideas you want to discuss with the community, you can join our Discord and chat with us in the #feature-ideas channel. We are always happy to discuss new ideas and features with the community.
Chroma This page is a list of common gotchas or issues and how to fix them. If you don't see your problem listed here, please also search the Github Issues. This is actually not an error. Embeddings are quite large and heavy to send back. Most application don't use the underlying embeddings and so, by default, chroma does not send them back. To send them back: add include=["embeddings", "documents", "metadatas", "distances"] to your query to return all information. For example: python We may change None to something else to more clearly communicate why they were not returned. If you encounter an error like this during setup plaintext Try these few tips from the community: Chroma requires SQLite > 3.35, if you encounter issues with having too low of a SQLite version please try the following. If you encounter an error like this during setup and are using Docker - you may have built the library on a machine with a different CPU architecture than the one you are running it on. Try rebuilding the Docker image on the machine you are running it on.
Chroma We are hiring software engineers and applied research scientists. ➡️ View open roles Chroma as a project is coordinated by a small team of full-time employees who work at a company also called Chroma. We work in the sunny Mission District in San Francisco. Chroma is co-founded by Jeff Huber (left) and Anton Troynikov (right).  Chroma is a company that builds the open-source project also called Chroma. We are committed to building open source software because we believe in the flourishing of humanity that will be unlocked through the democratization of robust, safe, and aligned AI systems. These tools need to be available to a new developer just starting in ML as well as the organizations that scale ML to millions (and billions) of users. Open source is about expanding the horizon of what’s possible. Chroma is a commercial open source company. What does that mean? We believe that organizing financially sustainable teams of people to work to manage, push and integrate the project enriches the health of the project and the community. It is important that our values around this are very clear! What code will be open source? As a general rule, any feature which an individual developer would find useful will be 100% open source forever. This approach, popularized by Gitlab, is called buyer-based open source. We believe that this is essential to accomplishing our mission. Currently we don’t have any specific plans to monetize Chroma, we are working on a hosted service that will be launched as a free technical preview to make it easier for developers to get going. We are 100% focused on building valuable open source software with the community and for the community. Chroma raised an $18M seed round led by Astasia Myers from Quiet Capital. Joining the round are angels including Naval Ravikant, Max and Jack Altman, Jordan Tigani (Motherduck), Guillermo Rauch (Vercel), Akshay Kothari (Notion), Amjad Masad (Replit), Spencer Kimball (CockroachDB), and other founders and leaders from ScienceIO, Gumroad, MongoDB, Scale, Hugging Face, Jasper and more.  Chroma raised a pre-seed in May 2022, led by Anthony Goldbloom (Kaggle) from AIX Ventures, James Cham from Bloomberg Beta, and Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross (AI Grant). We're excited to work with a deep set of investors and enterpreneurs who have invested in and built some of the most successful open-source projects in the world.
Chroma Chroma currently maintains 1st party clients for Python and Javascript. For other clients in other languages, use their repos for documentation. Client - is the object that wraps a connection to a backing Chroma DB Collection - is the object that wraps a collection Chroma's backend Swagger REST API docs are viewable by running Chroma and navigating to http://localhost:8000/docs. Command Line
